Loosening Covid restrictions across the UK over Christmas is a "mistake," a public health expert has said.Edinburgh University's Prof Linda Bauld said there was concern about people travelling from "high to low prevalence areas" to see their loved ones.Wales' Health Minister Vaughan Gething said changes would cause "huge issues about trust", but could happen if case rates stayed high.The UK has recorded another 519 deaths within 28 days of a positive test.The latest government figures also include 21,502 new positive cases in the UK, taking the total number in the past seven days to 124,988.On Saturday, the number of positive Covid tests in Wales surpassed 100,000 , one day after the country reported its highest case rates since the pandemic began .How many cases in my area? Have we become bored of following the rules? Post-Christmas lockdown warning for WalesUp to three households can stay together and form a "Christmas bubble" from 23 to 27 December, as agreed by all four UK nations.Prof Bauld told BBC Breakfast that "from a public health perspective, I have to be perfectly honest, I think this is a mistake and I think people, even though we're permitted to do this, I think people have to think very carefully whether they can see loved ones outside or do it in a very, very modest way".She added there was "nothing to stop" governments reversing the rules, "but the problem is they've made that commitment to people across the UK, and that may affect trust in government if they roll back on that".Mr Gething said "of course we could" change the rules around Christmas, but "much of what we have done during the course of the pandemic is because people have trusted the government - when we said things we kept our word".He said was concerned a change in rules now would have people "completely ignoring the rules", and was worried that may be the case even with the current five-day relaxation agreement in place."That's why we are anticipating an increase after Christmas, we expect there'll be an increase after New Year's Eve as well," he added.Prof Chris Whitty, England's chief medical officer, earlier this week warned people to be "very, very sensible" and not go "too far" over Christmas, which he called a "very risky period".According the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) - which feeds into UK government decision-making - just because people can meet up, it does not mean they should.Mr Gething said he would not rule out another lockdown if cases continued to rise, echoing a warning made by First Minister Mark Drakeford on Friday.He added: "But the agreement around the Christmas period isn't just a political settlement. It really is because we understand that sort of shape to that period of time, we might see many people make up their own rules with the real potential of even greater harm."So it isn't as simple as saying 'this is just a political choice, and you could make it safer' because actually a lot of people invest lots of time, energy and effort in Christmas in travelling around the UK to see family when they don't do that in the rest of the year."Now we have to take account of the reality of the position as well and what would like to happen, how we want people to behave."A UK government spokesperson said this year won't be "a 'normal' Christmas", but people would want to be with loved ones."Meeting with friends and family over Christmas will be a personal judgement, and we must be mindful of the risks, particularly to vulnerable individuals," the spokesperson said. "Everyone has a role to play by remembering hands, face, space and keeping indoor spaces well ventilated to limit the spread of the virus and protect our loved ones."
Support is needed to stop students being "left out in the cold" after graduating during the coronavirus pandemic, a union has said.BBC Wales has spoken to graduates who have applied for as many as 80 jobs - often without even a reply.The National Union of Students now fears many graduates are struggling both financially and mentally as they try to find employment.The Welsh Government said it had provided 10m to support students.Graduating from university should have been a proud moment for thousands of students.Instead it become a lonely process as campuses emptied, work-placements were cancelled and graduation ceremonies scrapped amid lockdown.NUS Cymru President Beck Ricketts said many students were dealing with isolation after learning was switched online."Students are affectively on their own with a degree, and trying to get a job in a very different climate than the one they entered university in," she said.Wales university students 'to get phased January return' Are universities doing enough to look after students?Ms Ricketts said many students were feeling anxious about finding work, and changes were needed to prepare final year students for post-university life."With all the difficulties around isolation, and the uncertainty about what's to come in 2021, it is going to have a detrimental effect on students' mental health," she said.A survey by Prospects , in May, found many final-year students had seen job offers deferred or even withdrawn due to the economic disruption caused by Covid.Of the 1,202 students who responded and due to graduate, 64.6% had said they felt negative about their job prospects. Economists estimate the graduate job market has faired better than the wider market , and many employers and universities had adapted.And with pubs and non-essential shops struggling, even casual work has dried up.After completing a master's degree in September, Tim Dodd hoped to start his dream job as a broadcast journalist.But instead, after seeing work-placements cancelled, he is now looking at different opportunities."For about two months I was applying for jobs," said the 23-year-old, who has moved in with his parents in Pontypridd."I was emailing everyone under the sun. I now realise that after applying for about 80 jobs, and either being rejected or not hearing back, it's not worth my time spending all week applying."I've been looking at what I can do instead. It's not as simple as going back to retail jobs I'd done in the past. I didn't get anything back from WH Smiths when I applied a few weeks ago."With many media organisations making cuts , Mr Dodd said he was aware he was up against people with years of experience when applying for roles."There's so may people out of work with more experience that it's not fair to shortlist a graduate," he said."You're a bit stuck, I can't do the dream job but I also can't do much else."Interior Design graduate Megan Haf Williams, 23, faces a similar dilemma after the "massive anti-climax" of finishing her Cardiff University course.She had been unable to showcase her work at the usual end-of-year exhibition."It's quite daunting knowing when you're applying there are people who are way more qualified, it's demotivating," she said."If everyone is at home, to train someone is probably really difficult. It means we're not very hireable at the moment."Megan, who also her work cut at a local pub, is now hoping to retrain as a personal trainer."I am beginning to feel more hopeful that once restrictions start easing, more jobs come on the websites. But once there are rumours of another [lockdown], they all vanish again," she said.While there has been a 12% fall in graduate recruitment this year, the Institute of Student Employers believes there are reasons for students to be optimistic.Graduate labour market expert Charlie Ball said many major firms were still honouring graduate schemes.But he said those graduating in the arts, creative and hospitality sectors had been hit hard."It's not necessarily jobs being lost, but a lot of employers have hunkered down because they know there's light at the end of the tunnel," he said.The Welsh Government said it had provided an extra 10m to support students at Welsh universities, including additional mental health support."This is in addition to 27m to support universities this year, as well as 1.5m to support students who have graduated this year to begin their careers," a spokesman said. 
For almost four decades the Santa Isabel estate has been growing coffee and roasting it on its premises with machines powered by water and coal. But production could fall this year at the massive farm, which covers a steep mountain that is almost entirely carpeted with coffee bushes.Coffee pickers have become harder to hire amid the coronavirus pandemic. Low prices for beans mean there is not much money to lure more workers by offering higher wages."If we cannot get more workers we could lose some of our crop," says ngel Garca, the farm's manager. "The beans will fall and rot on the ground," he explained, as a crew of about 50 workers made their way up a slope covered in 6ft-tall (1.8m) bushes.Santa Isabel - which has 900,000 coffee bushes - is one of many farms in the Colombian province of Antioquia that is struggling with labour shortages this year. The province, home to the city of Medelln, needs around 32,000 coffee pickers from other parts of the country each year to collect its harvest, which takes place between September and December. But it currently has a deficit of 7,000 coffee pickers, according to Colombia's National Federation of Coffee Growers. Similar labour shortages affected coffee farms in Costa Rica earlier this year.Workers at the Santa Isabel farm say that fewer people are showing up because the job has become riskier. "This place has workers that come from many different places," said Luis Giraldo, a 40-year-old coffee picker. "Even if you try to avoid contact with others, you really can't," he says, pointing to a group of a dozen workers who sit next to each other, chatting after having breakfast. None of them wore facemasks.Mr Giraldo's wife, Gloria Piedrahita, says she is happy to have a job. Her small clothing store in Medelln went broke earlier this year. But she also acknowledges there was a risk of getting infected with coronavirus. "We have to sleep in dormitories here," she explained. "And not all of the workers are careful."Will jugglers and clowns harvest fruit and veg? 'You have to protect the grapes from getting sunburn' India's kite-makers see sales fly during lockdownTo prevent outbreaks and make the job safer for coffee pickers, farms in Colombia have taken bio-security measures that include adding hand-washing stations and temperature checks.Some of the larger farms have also expanded their dormitories or added tents so that their workers are more spaced out, with their bunk beds now placed two metres apart.But the measures have not attracted as many workers as farmers had hoped for, even though the unemployment rate in Colombia is about 50% higher than it was a year ago. Mr Garca says that his farm usually hires 500 temporary workers to harvest its coffee bushes in November, when beans are ready to be picked. This year he has only been able to get 200.Cold and rainy weather has slowed down the pace at which coffee beans mature in many parts of Colombia this year. That has helped Santa Isabel to stave off major losses. But the farm is still actively recruiting people, before its beans fall to the ground."We are putting ads on the radio, we are sending out a truck into town with a megaphone on it, offering to bring workers to the farm," Mr Garca explains. "The truck often comes back empty."Jos lvaro Jaramillo, the Antioquia director for Colombia's Coffee Growers Federation, says the labour shortages have been happening for several years now - though to a lesser extent - as better paying industries like highway construction and the illegal coca crop lure rural workers away from the coffee fields. Coffee pickers in Colombia are paid about $0.15 (0.11) for every kilogram of beans they collect. On a good day an experienced coffee picker can make around $30 a day, gathering 200kg of beans. It is three times as much money as what a worker on the national minimum wage makes. But the job is physically demanding and does not provide a fixed income or health insurance. Fernando Morales de La Cruz, an expert on the coffee industry who directs the Caf for Change Initiative, says that labour shortages will continue to be a problem until "the business model on which the global coffee industry operates is changed". Mr Morales de la Cruz points out that coffee currently sells for around $2.40/kg in global markets, or less than what it was selling for in 1983, when coffee-growing nations stopped imposing export quotas.He says that a few companies - including Starbucks and Nestle - are purchasing most of the coffee in the world and keeping prices low thanks to their bargaining power. For wages to improve significantly in the industry, wholesale prices for coffee beans would have to hover around $12/kg, Mr Morales de la Cruz, who is also a human rights activist, says. He argues that this big hike in prices could be covered, partly, by charging consumers an additional 10 cents for every cup of coffee bought at cafes or restaurants. Still even as growers struggle with low prices for their coffee, there are people willing to work for the modest wages on offer. At the Santa Isabel farm many of the coffee pickers who turned out this year are Venezuelan migrants, who need to send money to relatives at home. In Venezuela, the monthly minimum wage is currently worth around $1."We can't let the coronavirus scare us" said Rafael Avendao, a 25-year-old Venezuelan worker who has been at the farm for a month. He had been living on Colombia's Caribbean coast for three years working as a motorcycle taxi driver, but the pandemic put him out of business. "I'm more afraid of rolling down one of these slopes than of the pandemic" he joked. "For people like us the priority is to work." 
Before the Covid-19 pandemic, working from home was often seen as a luxurious oddity. For many, though, it has become the norm - not just for them, but their partners, too. How are couples coping?When James and Jo Williamson first started working from home together, everything was fine."We both had our desks set up in our home office. It was all lovely," says James."But then it turned out I was too loud to work next to."James, an analyst programmer, and Jo, a contracts officer for a university, began working together at home in March, the month that Prime Minister Boris Johnson advised people to do so if they could in order to reduce the risk of Covid-19 infection.Office of National Statistics (ONS) figures show that by the following month, nearly half the entire UK workforce was doing at least some of their work from home.Yet home-working was not possible for millions of workers, including those most at risk of infection - such as nurses, paramedics and others in the healthcare sector .People in the professional, technical and managerial occupations were, according to the ONS, the most likely to be able to work from home, while those in skilled trades, sales or factories were the least likely.A study into the high death rate among another group who could not work from home - London bus drivers - concluded an earlier lockdown would likely have saved their lives .The Williamsons, however, doubled up in their home office with extra monitors, a desk and an office chair for Jo."It is like a control centre in there," says James. "I can do the majority of my work from home, which has been pretty handy. I can get access to all the servers and bits and pieces that I need to."But their side-by-side experiment was over within days."I moved out," says Jo. "That's because when our meetings clashed, which they often do, he's just a lot louder than I am, so I had to go off and shut the door. "So I am now in another room."Gareth and Courtney, who asked for their surname to be withheld, have had to adapt the living arrangements in their small townhouse in Woburn, Bedfordshire, to accommodate their new working-from-home set-up and the needs of their two young children.The couple both hold senior roles with internationally-known firms.You might also be interested in:'Why we took on a pub in lockdown' Why dating feels so different now Domestic abuse incidents increased during pandemicBefore the pandemic, Courtney was travelling to up to three different countries per week in her role."It has been a juggling act," she says. "We had to figure out a really robust plan, and that even involved us setting up an Excel schedule and painting one of our walls with blackboard paint and then writing out our work calendars on it and then working out who has the more critical meetings that day."Gareth has largely been based in a spare bedroom while Courtney has set up shop on the kitchen table."I think we will look back on this year at some stage and feel a bit nostalgic about about it. I've never felt more married than I have this year and it has tested every inch of our family dynamic," she says.While working from home together has worked for Jo and James and Gareth and Courtney, it has not been plain sailing for many other couples.One Suffolk mother, who wishes to remain anonymous, tells how her and her husband's marriage collapsed after lockdown brought their differences into sharp relief."We both have quite high powered jobs and our little boy was previously in full-time nursery," she says. "Lockdown meant that all changed and he was at home all of the time."Her husband, she says, refused to play any role in looking after their son, leaving childcare entirely to her, which meant she was starting work in the very early hours and restarting, often working into the small hours."He played no role whatsoever. In reality it just highlighted things that had been building in our relationship for a number of years."It was the sense of isolation that was the worst thing. There are few things more lonely than feeling alone in a marriage."Marriage counselling via the internet failed, and she left the family home in May, with her son."We live in a flat now, which I just love," she says. "The strange thing is that now the custody arrangements are in place, my ex-husband has become a much better father."Let in the light: "People vary quite a lot in terms of personality type," says consultant psychiatrist Dr TBS Balamurali. "But the guiding principles are very clear. Sunlight - alongside fresh air and access to nature - is fundamentally good for your mental health." Love plants: Bringing plants and other natural objects and images into your home work space can have a significant impact. Exercise: Multiple studies have found that exercise is a natural anti-anxiety treatment, relieving stress, boosting physical and mental energy, and enhancing well-being through the release of endorphins. Declutter: Studies have found that clutter can raise your level of cortisol, a stress hormone. That may be because clutter delivers conflicting stimuli to the brain, which then has to work harder to filter out unhelpful signals. Shut out the noise: Dr Rebecca Dewey from the University of Nottingham, an expert in how the brain interprets sound, says different parts of your brain are constantly trying to recognise different noises and changes in sounds. "That can be hugely distracting from trying to work," she says.Source: BBCRelate , which offers relationship support, surveyed its counsellors and found that of the 68 who responded, more than half reported an increase in clients struggling to maintain a good work-life balance, and 65% said they had seen a rise in the number of clients presenting with issues relating to a change in job or working circumstances.One of Relate's counsellors is Holly Roberts, who has also found herself working from home alongside her partner in their Brighton flat."One of the common issues seems to stem from when somebody had been working, or primarily in the home, since before the pandemic. They have then had the issue of trying to manage the space and responsibilities between them," she says."There have also been difficulties with sharing issues at work, in which a person working from home tries to talk about things they would normally talk about in the office with their partner. The other person sometimes finds themselves saying, 'Look, I'm your partner, not your co-worker.'"Then there the expectations people have of each other, including domestic tasks such as doing the laundry or making lunch."That kind of things can cause friction," she says."The year has been anxiety-inducing in all sorts of ways and, for those with children too, it has been really hard to manage relationships, time, work and children and it has left some feeling that they are a terrible partner or parent."I've had couples who tell me they thought they had a really good relationship and they now worry that perhaps they don't have as good a relationship as they thought."So how does she help them resolve their issues?"I'm trying to help people understand that what they are feeling is entirely natural, to be kinder to themselves, to accept the feelings they are having and to know they are so far from being the only people feeling that way."A SIMPLE GUIDE: How do I protect myself? IMPACT: What the virus does to the body RECOVERY: How long does it take? LOCKDOWN: How can we lift restrictions? ENDGAME: How do we get out of this mess?Find BBC News: East of England on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. If you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk
Military support is being brought in to help with the coronavirus testing programme in Birmingham.About 100 military personnel will aid Birmingham City Council with its "drop and collect" testing programme.At a weekly briefing, the council's deputy leader said it would assist civilian efforts to maximise the numbers of tests able to be done.It comes as the number of cases in the city reached 107.6 per 100,000 people - the highest in the West Midlands.The "drop and collect service" sees tests dropped off at a resident's door and then collected by staff and is aimed at areas with high rates of infection, to provide a service to people who can't leave their homes and to encourage those who may not be proactive in getting tested. "We have been in talks with the military about them giving us some extra capacity for drop-and-collect," deputy leader, councillor Brigid Jones told a meeting of the West Midlands Combined Authority on Friday.She said their assistance would be "very much in an extra capacity, feet-on-the-ground sense" and 500 council staff had also been redeployed to the "drop-and-collect" testing service.Ms Jones said that there are 30 wards in the city with more than 20 cases and Sparkhill has seen 70 cases in the last seven days and although testing has increased dramatically, the rate of positive cases to tests has also increased to 6.7%."Our plea to residents would be, if one of our staff knocks on your door, please take up the opportunity to take a test," Ms Jones added.SOCIAL DISTANCING: What are the rules now? BUBBLES: How do they work and who can be in yours? SYMPTOMS: What are they and how to guard against them? LOOK-UP TOOL: How many cases in your area?Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook , Twitter and Instagram . Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk 
Universities in the UK are being urged to scrap plans for face-to-face teaching until Christmas in order to prevent a second wave of coronavirus.Academics' union UCU said more than a million students moving around the country was "a recipe for disaster".But university bosses say they have worked hard to plan for a safe return to all aspects of student life.It comes as daily recorded cases of coronavirus in the UK reached 1,715 in 24 hours, the highest since early June.Case numbers began edging up again in the UK in July, after falling in June - but are still much lower than the 5,000 new cases a day there were in April, at the peak of the epidemic.Experts say the increase in testing over recent weeks means more people with the virus are being detected.Students back at uni - but with masks and no bars What if I still don't have the place I want? And other questions Is it time for us to move on from coronavirus? asks our medical editorThe UCU's Jo Grady says having tens of thousands of students heading into cities across the UK "risks doing untold damage to people's health and exacerbating the worst public health crisis of our lifetimes".She told BBC Breakfast the mass migration of a million students could prompt a "silent avalanche of infections". AdChoices ADVERTISEMENT"There is far more of a risk than perhaps the general public has appreciated," she said, adding that universities were not prepared and risked becoming the "care homes of the second wave".Dr Grady said Manchester would see 100,000 students arriving, Birmingham 80,000, and Leicester 40,000. "These are all cities that have had some form of local lockdown and have come out of it or are about to go into one," she said.And she warned the higher number of students expected at universities this year would make social distancing harder.Universities UK, which represents campus leaders, says many staff want to return to face-to-face teaching and research "where it is safe and appropriate to do so". They are mindful of the benefits of in-person teaching and support for students' well-being and development, its president, Prof Julia Buckingham, said.The government says it is "confident that universities are well prepared for the return of students by taking measures such as introducing social distancing on campus, limiting travel requirement for classes and staggering teaching across extended days to reduce numbers on site".It said guidance is "under constant review" to reflect the latest public health advice such as 2m distancing, or 1m plus with measures such as face coverings.Prof Jonathan Ball, a virologist at the University of Nottingham, said universities were aware students returning to campus might be "a potential flair point for coronavirus infection" and were taking that risk "seriously".He said universities would have their own rules and guidance, with sanctions "for students who willingly, knowingly break the rules of engagement".But he cited veterinary students who had already returned to Nottingham , whom he praised for their "incredibly good" behaviour and attitude."We have to allow these students to get the education that they have worked hard for - and to enjoy university life as much as is possible at the moment," he told BBC News. Prof Carl Heneghan, director of the Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine at the University of Oxford, says it is safe for students to return to universities.He told Breakfast that "right now it is as safe as it ever has been" to go back to campuses.But he suggested universities could put back face-to-face teaching until the end of the academic year in spring or summer 2021, when the threat from coronavirus might have reduced."Can we do something over the summer, can we put a summer school on?" he asked, adding: "We need to maximise that [teaching] experience."The language used by unions is very strong. There are plenty of infectious disease and public health experts who would not paint the threat in such extreme terms. Whenever we hear about risks of a second wave or a sharp rise in cases we need to consider where we have come from.The initial surge happened because the virus was spreading pretty much undetected for a period. It was certainly more widespread than the UK and other countries realised in February and March.By the time lockdown came there were an estimated 100,000 new infections a day in the UK.Today we have over 1,000 confirmed infections a day, on average. Of course some are going undetected, but it is clear the virus is currently under control.As people circulate more - going back to work, schools and university - the likelihood is infections will rise.But everyday life has completely transformed from what it was in February - there are many reasons why a second surge in infections like the first can, and should, be avoided.Students preparing for the new university term can expect changes on campuses - much like those that have affected other aspects of life since March.Strict cleaning measures, lots of hand sanitiser, one-way systems and capacity limits for places such as the library and coffee shop will be common.Close-knit seminars and office hours with lecturers are unlikely to take place face-to-face as they did before.At the University of Leicester, students and staff will be screened for Covid-19 from October using a new form of mass testing developed by the institution's academics.Vice-chancellor Prof Nishan Canagrarajah told the BBC Leicester would regularly test as many as 10,000 students and staff to monitor infections throughout the academic year, alongside NHS Test and Trace.There will also be staggered arrival times to prevent all students returning to the city at once, he said.CHILDREN'S RISK: Study shows it is 'tiny' GETTING ABOUT: Is it safe to use public transport? BACK TO SCHOOL: Does my child have to return?Almost all institutions will be making greater use of online teaching methods for students studying non-practical subjects.Aside from studies, Swansea University said plans to keep students safe included "bubbles" among flatmates, meaning a ban on parties or having people over to stay .And nights out will look different, too. The University of Sheffield's student union has implemented an ordering app and table service, making its bars less crowded.In Manchester, a student union is building outdoor "greenhouses" for drinkers to book in advance. Nightclubs remain closed due to continued national restrictions.PANORAMA: Home isn't always a safe place, especially in lockdown GOOD TROUBLE: Your new drama obsession - can these girls make it in LA?
A budget shortfall of 72m has been forecast by Sheffield City Council over the next four years, due to the impact of Covid-19 along with otherpressures.Social care pressures, the costs of dealing with coronavirus and the normal costs have added up to create the shortfall, it said in a report.Director of Finance Ryan Keyworth said the "full impact of the crisis is really not yet known". It comes as South Yorkshire prepares to move into tier three restrictions.People living in Barnsley, Doncaster, Rotherham and Sheffield local authority areas will be in the very high alert category from Saturday. This means, among other things, people are not allowed to meet socially with anybody who is not part of their household, or support bubble, indoors.More stories from around YorkshireAlthough a finance package was agreed with the government for 30m to support the region's businesses and 11m for measures such as test and trace, the council said the full extent of future support is not yet known.As reported by the Local Democracy Reporting Service , Mr Keyworth said: "It's fairly safe to say the gap cannot be met from the council's one-off reserves alone and as a result significant savings are going to be required to balance the council's books over the next few years."We are going on the assumption here that we are not going to receive any additional government funding for that which we have received this year. "It's what we believe is a sensible approach on which to plan."Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook , Twitter and Instagram . Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk or send video here .
South Yorkshire is to be moved into the "high" category on the Covid-19 three-tier scale, the prime minister has announced. The move, which could start on Wednesday subject to parliamentary approval, will see a ban on households mixing indoors .The government's rule of six would apply in gardens and other spaces. People should "aim to reduce the number of journeys they make where possible", according to the rating. The rules will apply to all of South Yorkshire's four metropolitan boroughs; Barnsley, Doncaster, Rotherham and Sheffield. People must not meet anybody outside their household or support bubble in any indoor setting This includes both homes and indoor public places People must not meet in a group of more than six outside, including in a garden or other space People should aim to reduce the number of journeys they make where possible If they need to travel, they should walk or cycle where possible, or plan ahead and avoid busy times and routes on public transportSource: Downing StreetThe three levels are categorised as medium, high and very high, with non-essential retail, schools and universities remaining open in all levels. Boris Johnson said the measures would be kept under "constant review" with continuing discussions involving local leaders in Yorkshire and the Humber.Social distancing, the rule of six and the 22:00 restaurant and pub curfew still all apply. Covid rules: How will the three-tier lockdown system work? What are the Covid restrictions where I live?The rate of infections in Sheffield was 439.3 per 100,000 of the population in the week to 8 October. Rotherham's rate was 240.4, Barnsley's was 221.6 and Doncaster's 173.8.Responding to the announcement, Dan Jarvis, mayor of the Sheffield City Region, said: "People in South Yorkshire must prepare themselves for a new set of rules and to limit their contact with other households. "If the restrictions are to work, they must be crystal clear to command people's confidence, and be part of a coherent plan which will get us out local restrictions."Chris Read, Rotherham Council leader, said councils from across the county were lobbying the government for "the economic support that we need"."It can't be right that if a business has to close because of restrictions, that closure is permanent," he said."Those businesses and the people who work for them need financial support to see them through this tough time until their businesses can open again."The plan was to "simplify and standardise" but there was nothing but confusion after the PM's announcement. There are significant differences between the infection rates in Sheffield and Doncaster for example, but people in the whole of South Yorkshire, which also includes Barnsley and Rotherham, will be subject to the new rules.Meanwhile those just over the border in North East Derbyshire and Chesterfield will remain on the "medium" level, despite being in the same mayoral authority of the Sheffield City Region. The Labour local authority leaders and the city region's mayor have broadly welcomed the restrictions, but they are asking the government to provide a better financial package.With the "very high" risk level approaching, it is unlikely they will agree to additional business closures without more support for the local economy. For more insight on politics in the north of England, listen to Yorkshirecast hereFollow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook , Twitter and Instagram . Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk or send video here .
England has exited lockdown but for nearly all the country, Wednesday marks just a small step back towards normality.With the exception of Cornwall, the Isle of Wight and Isles of Scilly, strict restrictions mean people's lives are being curtailed.A crucial factor - ministers have argued - is that the NHS risks being overwhelmed without the tough curbs on freedoms. But is this really true?A quick glance at the latest data on hospital beds shows there were nearly 13,000 beds free at the end of November. That's 50% more than last winter.There are also several thousand beds available in private hospitals that the NHS has paid for until the end of the year that could be used for non-Covid patients. It means, in theory, there are enough beds available to cope with a doubling of Covid patients - there are currently about 14,000 in hospital.In practice, the NHS is meant to keep at least a tenth of its beds free to create flexibility to admit patients and cope with surges in demand.It also allows time for cleaning and infection control - something that is, of course, particularly important during a pandemic.In fact, the need for social distancing and infection control has meant hospitals have had to be reconfigured significantly, leading to 13,000 beds being lost from the system. What is more, the pressures are not felt evenly around the country. The past few months have been marked by individual hospitals getting dangerously close to full, with some reporting more than a quarter of beds occupied by Covid patients.But the flip side of that is that some are not. Explaining why he was voting against the new tiers, Tim Loughton, the Tory MP for East Worthing and Shoreham, said his hospital had just four Covid patients.These differences matter. Hospital capacity is one of the five key tests for working out which tier local areas are in.While doing this, the NHS is playing a juggling act. In the spring, a lot of planned work, including some cancer care, was cancelled. The decision was taken because of the fear that hospitals could be completely overwhelmed. But it meant significant numbers of beds were left unused as the data for June in the chart below shows.But this chart also demonstrates how the NHS has tried to get services back to normal over the summer and autumn with the number of non-Covid patients in hospital (shown in green) climbing.This is deemed essential because of the growing backlog in numbers waiting for treatment. Macmillan estimates there are more than 40,000 missing cancer patients.Meanwhile, the numbers waiting over a year for routine treatment, such as knee and hip operations, is at its highest level since 2008.It is easy to think these sort of treatments can wait. But as Royal College of Surgeons of England president Prof Neil Mortensen says, these are patients whose lives are on hold left waiting "potentially in pain".The desire to keep the non-Covid work going is strong - and when you put this all together, it leaves very little wriggle room.It means any significant increase in Covid patients above the level seen now has a direct impact on non-Covid care.All this is being done while staff are exhausted with significant numbers - 30,000 at last count - off work for Covid-related issues.England has a network of seven field hospitals known as Nightingales. These were built during the spring, again on the assumption that hospitals could become overwhelmed.One of the challenges the NHS has faced is that it has fewer doctors, nurses and beds per head of population than many other western European countries.Tory MP John Redwood has been vocal in calling for the Nightingales to be used, accusing those making dire warnings of trying to "scare" the public. Between them they could provide care to several thousand patients.But the problem is they need staff. Chris Hopson, of NHS Providers, which represents hospital managers, says they were only ever built as an "insurance policy" to be used as a last resort if hospitals were overwhelmed. To open them would mean spreading staff more thinly across hospitals and the Nightingales. That, of course, has consequences for the quality of care. It is the reason why only two have been pressed into action during the second wave. Stretching the NHS beyond the point it is at currently is certainly possible, but it will have consequences.Follow Nick on TwitterRead more from Nick
Winter support for rough sleepers has been cut due to Covid guidelines, the BBC has heard, as charities warn many people have nowhere to stay. Thousands have been found homes since the start of the pandemic, following the government's 'Everyone In' campaign. But the charity, Shelter, says councils are now denying people accommodation who aren't considered a priority. Communal night shelters and soup kitchens have been forced to close this year. Jon Ironmonger met rough sleepers on the streets of Milton Keynes. This video has been optimised for mobile viewing on the BBC News app. The BBC News app is available from the Apple App Store for iPhone and Google Play Store for Android.
The US public will start receiving the Pfizer/BioNTech coronavirus vaccine from Monday after it was authorised for emergency use. Gen Gustave Perna, speaking for the US government's vaccination campaign Operation Warp Speed, told reporters that doses of the vaccine would be packed for transportation "within the next 24 hours". He said it was the beginning of a mission to "defeat the enemy" of Covid-19.
There is more than one "rule of six". Who knew? It's what a legendary Hollywood film editor used to describe the best of way making a must-watch movie, mixing six different elements like emotion and space (his name is Walter Murch, if you are on the hunt for trivia).The other rule of six is part of the code that rules corporate takeovers, more familiar to City lawyers. You may indeed have your own obscure examples. But ministers hope now the government's new rule of six will very quickly become familiar to the country and will immediately change people's behaviour too. 'We must act' to prevent second lockdown, says PM What are the new rules for meeting my friends? How many confirmed cases are there in your area?From Monday, it will be illegal in England, apart from at school or work or under other few exceptions, to meet more than five other people at a time. The police will have the power to stop that happening - you can read exactly how the new restrictions will work here . After weeks when the government has been trying to cheerlead the country back to the office, urging pupils back to school and taking steps to roll back coronavirus restrictions it is quite the change of tone, change of pace, and change of heart. The prime minister also acknowledged publicly, after many weeks of questions about the layers of anomalies and different rules and regulations, that complicated messages had made the rules hard for people to follow. THE R NUMBER: What it means and why it matters SUPPORT BUBBLES: What are they and who can be in yours? TEST AND TRACE: How does it work? SCHOOLS: What will happen if children catch coronavirus? TESTING: What tests are available?Boris Johnson can hope that the public in England will be willing to follow a new, clearer instruction. But it is not obvious that the public will all comply. The reason for the change however, as we discussed yesterday , is crystal clear. The number of cases has started to rise, and rise quickly, and ministers want to slam on the brakes. The new rule is a significant move, and it's plain it could mean limits on our lives for many months. The prime minister today acknowledged that even Christmas may not be much like normal. The changes are designed to prevent the disease taking off again, and to stop the need for another full national lockdown, something the government is desperate to avoid. But other measures are waiting in the wings too. At the bottom of the government's guidance issued today, there is a rather bland, technical sounding paragraph: "The government will restrict the opening hours of premises, initially in local lockdown areas, with the option of national action in the future. This has been introduced in Bolton, following a steep rise in cases, and will seek to restrict activities that may lead to a spread in the virus." In other words, if the rise in cases doesn't slow, the government could bring in a national curfew on opening hours, a more radical step. Government sources emphasise this is not about to happen. But by laying out the option, it's clear the rule of six could be followed by more radical steps.
Measures to slow the spread of Covid-19 in London are becoming "increasingly likely", its mayor has said.Sadiq Khan made the announcement after holding an emergency meeting with London council leaders, the government and Public Health England.He said he was extremely concerned by evidence of the accelerating speed with which coronavirus was spreading in the city.It comes amid warnings of a "second wave" of the virus across the UK.Mr Khan said the situation was being made worse by uncertainty over the lack of testing capacity in the capital.He said: "It is increasingly likely that, in London, additional measures will soon be required to slow the spread of the virus."We will be considering some of the measures which have already been imposed in other parts of the UK."I am of the firm view that we should not wait, as happened six months ago, for this virus to again spiral out of control before taking action."The number of cases per 100,000 people over seven days is reported to have increased in London from 18.8 to about 25.Londoners have been urged to be as cautious as possible over the weekend, by following social distancing rules, washing hands and wearing face coverings.Mr Khan said: "The best thing for both public health and the economy is new restrictions imposed early, rather than a full lockdown when it's too late - but the government must urgently ensure there is a fully functioning testing system."The sharp rise in UK cases over the last two weeks comes amid ongoing problems with the government's test and trace programme, leading to people struggling to access tests .The government says testing capacity - which it defines as how many can be processed in the lab each day - is higher than ever .
At the start of the pandemic, we were warned: it takes years to develop a vaccine, so don't expect too much too soon.Now, after only 10 months, the injections have begun and the firms behind the front-runners are household names.As a result, investment analysts are forecasting that at least two of them, American biotech company Moderna and Germany's BioNTech with its partner, US giant Pfizer, would be likely to make billions of dollars next year.But it's not clear how much vaccine makers really are set to cash in beyond that. Thanks to the way these vaccines have been funded and the number of firms joining the race to make them, any opportunity to make big profits could be short-lived.Due to the urgent need for the vaccine, governments and donors, have poured billions of pounds into projects to create and test them. Philanthropic organisations such as the Gates Foundation backed the quest as well as individuals including Alibaba founder Jack Ma and country music star Dolly Parton.In total, governments have provided 6.5bn, according to science data analytics company Airfinity. Not-for-profit organisations have provided nearly 1.5bn. Only 2.6bn has come from companies' own investment, with many of them heavily reliant on outside funding.There's a good reason that big firms didn't rush in to fund vaccine projects. Creating vaccines, especially in the teeth of an acute health emergency, hasn't proved very profitable in the past. The discovery process takes time and is far from certain. Poorer nations need large supplies but can't afford high prices. And vaccines usually need to be administered just once or twice. Medications that are wanted in wealthier countries, especially ones that require daily doses, are bigger money-spinners.Firms that began work on vaccines for other diseases such as Zika and Sars had their fingers burnt. On the other hand, the market for flu' jabs, which is worth several billion dollars a year, suggests that if Covid-19, like flu, is here to stay and requires annual booster jabs, then it could be profitable for the firms that come up with the most effective, and most cost-effective products.Some firms don't want to be seen to be profiting from the global crisis, especially after receiving so much outside funding. The large US drugmaker, Johnson & Johnson, and the UK's AstraZeneca, which is working with a University of Oxford-based biotech company, have pledged to sell the vaccine at a price that just covers their costs. AstraZeneca's currently looks set to be the cheapest at $4 (3) per dose. Moderna, a small biotechnology firm, which has been working on the technology behind its ground-breaking RNA vaccine for years, is pricing theirs much higher, at up to $37 per dose. Its aim is to make some profit for the firms' shareholders (although part of the higher price will also cover the costs of transporting those vaccines at very low temperatures).That doesn't mean those prices are fixed, though. Typically, pharmaceutical companies charge different amounts in different countries, according to what governments can afford. AstraZeneca's promise to keep prices low extends only for the "duration of the pandemic". It could start charging higher prices as early as next year, depending on the path of the disease."Right now, governments in the rich world will pay high prices, they are so eager to get their hands on anything that can help bring an end to the pandemic," says Emily Field, head of European pharmaceutical research at Barclays. As soon as more vaccines come on stream, probably next year, competition may well push prices lower, she says.In the meantime, we shouldn't expect private firms - especially the smaller ones with no other products to sell - to make vaccines without looking for any profit, argues Rasmus Bech Hansen, chief executive of Airfinity. "Bear in mind these companies took a significant risk, moved really fast, and the research and development investments have been significant," he says.And if you want small firms to keep making breakthroughs in future, he says, you need to reward them. But some argue the sheer scale of the humanitarian crisis, and the public financing, means it isn't a time for business as usual. With so much at stake, there have been calls for the know-how behind the new vaccines to be pooled, so that other firms in India and South Africa, for example, can manufacture doses for their own markets.Ellen 't Hoen, director of research group Medicines Law and Policy, says that should have been a condition of receiving public funding."I think it was unwise of our governments to hand over that money without strings attached," she says. At the start of the pandemic, she says, big pharmaceutical companies showed little interest in the race for a vaccine. Only when governments and agencies stepped in with funding pledges did they get to work on it. So she doesn't see why they should have exclusive rights to profit from the results."These innovations become the private property of these commercial organisations and the control over who gets access to the innovation and access to the knowledge of how to make them stays in the hands of the company," she says.While there is some sharing of intellectual property going on, she says it's nowhere near enough. Governments and multilateral organisations have already pledged to buy billions of doses at set prices. So for the next few months, firms will be busy fulfilling those orders as quickly as possible.Those that are selling to countries with deeper pockets will start to see a return on their investment, whereas AstraZeneca, despite having deals to supply the highest number of doses, will only cover its costs.After those first contracts have been fulfilled, it is harder to predict what the new vaccine landscape will look like. It depends on many things: how long immunity lasts in those vaccinated, how many successful vaccines come on stream and whether production and distribution is going smoothly.Barclays' Emily Field thinks the window to make profits will be "very temporary".Even if the front-runners don't share their intellectual property, there are already more than 50 vaccines in clinical trials around the world. "In two years' time, there could be 20 vaccines on the market," says Ms Field. "It's going to be difficult to charge a premium price."She thinks the impact in the long run will have more to do with reputation. A successful vaccine roll-out could help open doors for selling Covid therapies or other products.In that respect, the whole industry is set to benefit, agrees Airfinity's Rasmus Bech Hansen."That's one of the silver linings that could come out of the pandemic," he says.In future, he expects governments to invest in pandemic strategies the way they do now in defence, viewing it as a necessary expenditure on things they hope not to use. Most promising of all, and one reason why the market value of BioNTech and Moderna has soared, is that their vaccines provide a proof of concept for their RNA technology."Everyone was impressed with its effectiveness," says Emily Field. "It could change the landscape for vaccines."Before Covid, BioNTech was working on a vaccine for skin cancer. Moderna is pursuing an RNA-based vaccine for ovarian cancer.If either of those succeeds, then the rewards could be huge.
It has been a little over a month since Wales came out of its 17-day firebreak lockdown.Pubs were closed, as were non-essential retailers, and people were told to stay home - much like the first lockdown in the spring. Wales went into lockdown earlier than the rest of the UK with the restrictions coming in on 23 October. Ten days earlier, Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer called for a short lockdown in England, where a four-week lockdown did not begin until 5 November. After an initial drop in cases following Wales' lockdown, they have risen again, with First Minister Mark Drakeford saying the situation had "deteriorated" and was "very serious indeed". He also warned there could be a new lockdown at the end of December .So, how has Wales ended up in this position? Q&A: Can I meet friends under new Covid rules? NHS staff sickness having 'huge impact' on careWales' firebreak ended on Monday, 9 November, with new nationwide restrictions coming into force. During the week between 2 November and 8 November, the final week of the tighter restrictions, the case rate in the country was 206.2 per 100,000 people. In the weeks after, this number fell to 170.6, before climbing to 192.3, then to 231.6 by the end of November. The figure now stands at a record 403.8. The week before the firebreak lockdown it was 234.5. In Friday's Public Health Wales figures , 10 of Wales' 22 counties, mostly in the south, recorded record high case rates since the start of the pandemic.When broken down locally, the heads of the south Wales valleys have shown up most of the hotspots for cases in the last few weeks.In recent days, Neath Port Talbot has provided five of the 20 worst-hit neighbourhoods and local health officials have warned about community transmission.Villages around Maesteg in Bridgend are also showing up - with Caerau having the highest local case rate - with more than 2,000 cases per 100,000 in the last week - 142 actual positive tests.Meanwhile, the 'R' number in Wales has risen to between 0.8 and 1.1, after a fall following the firebreak. The latest infection survey from the Office for National Statistics on Friday also suggested infections were rising, with 25,600 people in Wales estimated to have had Covid-19 in the week to 4 December, 7,500 more than the week before.This is one in 120 people.The first minister said on Wednesday the situation in Wales was "very difficult", but not out of control, amid accusations from opposition parties that he was losing his grip on the virus . He has has claimed that the recent rise in cases was partly due to people not being willing to follow the rules.Dr Richard Stanton, a reader in virology at Cardiff University, said there was "no mystery" as to why cases have increased, but the firebreak was successful in reducing the level of the virus in the community - albeit temporarily. He said: "We know what causes rates to go up and that's people being in close contact with one another. "The minute you leave a lockdown rates start to go up, because people come into contact with each other again in supermarkets, shops, etc. "All of these environments lead to an increase in the amount of time people come into contact and the amount of virus in circulation. "The rate of increase before the lockdown was quite similar to the rate of increase we're having now. The lockdown was projected to reset the level by about a month and it did that. But obviously if you change your measures at that point, the rate is going to go up."Dr Stanton added that Wales is seeing more of an increase relative to England and other parts of the UK because restrictions have been eased for longer. Wales' lockdown ended on 9 November, only a few days after England's four-week circuit breaker began. "I think effectively, the situation in England and Wales is exactly the same but we're offset by about two weeks," he said."If England doesn't do anything now, that's where England will be in two to three weeks' time."Dr Simon Williams, a senior lecturer in people and organisation at Swansea University, said it was "surprising" at how quickly the rates in Wales had rebounded. He said: "It was suggested prior to the firebreak that a short, sharp shock was necessary to bring the virus under control, and it isn't, particularly in south Wales."Dr Williams said there was "no strong evidence" that people were not adhering to the rules and the "vast majority" say they are sticking to them. However, he added people were becoming "fatigued" due to regular changes in restrictions, which could lead to people breaking certain rules without realising. "I think if we haven't got evidence that people are breaking rules to any great extent and we can see that the cases are as they are, then you feel like we can only conclude that they were lifted too soon," he said. He added a longer lockdown, with a more gradual easing of restrictions, would have helped to delay the rise, but that it was "inevitable" that more relaxed restrictions would lead to a rise in cases. The firebreak ended and a new set of national rules came into force, which allowed shops, pubs and restaurants to reopen, two households to form a bubble and schools to remain open, although travel to and from the other parts of the UK was banned during England's lockdown. But in the weeks since, the rules have been altered. Rules about travelling into England were relaxed, with travel to and from England's tier one and two areas allowed, but pubs and restaurants must now shut by 18:00 and they are not allowed to sell alcohol. Meanwhile, it has been announced secondary schools and many primaries will move to online learning from next week . The Welsh Conservatives and Plaid Cymru have both argued against the alcohol ban. On Friday, Mr Drakeford announced a new four-tier system for Wales , which would decide the level of restrictions in place.He said Wales was currently in tier three, the strictest package of restrictions short of a firebreak or a lockdown. The number of people in hospital with coronavirus has also hit record levels since the end of the firebreak, with 1,966 patients in hospital beds as of Thursday. This included a record number of patients - 628 - recovering from the virus. The figures also showed 83 people were in critical care. Around a quarter of all hospital beds have Covid patients in them and this proportion has been slowly rising.But NHS Wales, unlike during the first wave, has not been cancelling routine surgery yet.At the moment, about 78 Covid patients per day are being admitted to hospital with the virus on average - with numbers steady and even down slightly on the start of the month. However, as the winter continues and if Covid patients in beds continue at high levels, pressures will continue.Hospital admissions have risen in each of Wales' health board areas, except Betsi Cadwaladr, which covers north Wales. In fact, counties in the north, particularly the north-west, have relatively low Covid levels. Anglesey (37.1) and Gwynedd (46.6) both have case rates below 50 cases per 100,000 people, far below the Welsh average. However, nine our of Wales' 22 counties have case rates over 500 per 100,000 people, which equates to one in every 200 people testing positive in the past week. The worst-hit counties are Merthyr Tydfil (764.2), Neath Port Talbot (718), Newport (634.9), Caerphilly (602), Blaenau Gwent (601.2), Bridgend (586.9), Swansea (580.6), Rhondda Cynon Taf (564.9) and Torfaen (503.4). All of these counties are in the south and south-east of Wales.
