Dr. Anthony Fauci , the top infectious disease expert on the White Houses coronavirus task force, predicted Sunday that the number of COVID-19 infections will skyrocket over the next several weeks as millions of Americans travel during the holiday season.The U.S. experienced a surge in cases, hospitalizations and deaths in recent months, and public health officials warned that those numbers could jump during the winter as Americans experience COVID fatigue.Fauci and other task force members urged Americans to refrain from traveling to visit loved ones over the holidays to avoid spreading the virus. But millions of Americans bucked that advice and packed airports in the days leading up to Thanksgiving.We have to be careful now, Fauci told ABCs This Week on Sunday. There almost certainly is going to be an uptick because of whats happened with the travel.He added: We may see a surge upon a surge. We dont want to frighten people, but thats just the reality. We said that these things would happen as we got into the cold weather and as we began traveling, and theyve happened. Its gonna happen again.Fauci said its unlikely the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention will relax its holiday gathering guidelines ahead of Christmas.The true effect of Thanksgiving travel likely wont begin showing up in data until the second week of December. Thats because there are often delays in tracing and reporting the viruss spread, and it can take time for symptoms to appear, for people to get tested and for them to receive results.Fauci pleaded Sunday with Americans to continue to adhere to COVID-19 mitigation measures, including wearing masks, avoiding crowds and washing hands.We do know that it does work, Fauci said of the effort. Countries that have mitigated have turned around the surge.Hang in there a bit longer, he added. Help is on the way in the form of efficacious vaccines, with the first doses expected to arrive in the next few weeks, he said.The U.S. as of Sunday continued to lead the world in reported COVID-19 cases and deaths: 13.2 million cases and more than 266,000 deaths, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University . A HuffPost Guide To Coronavirus Which airlines are blocking out middle seats for holiday travel? How does the coronavirus spread differently than the flu? Can you close your COVID bubble without losing friends forever? Is it safe to see grandparents over the holidays? How can you help a friend with anxiety when youre also struggling ? Everyone deserves accurate information about COVID-19. Support journalism without a paywall and keep it free for everyone by becoming a HuffPost member today. 
The coronavirus crisis continued to reach new heights over the Thanksgiving holiday as average daily caseloads showed no sign of declining across much of the country.Sixteen states including Arizona, California, Michigan, Nevada, New Jersey and Ohio saw their average daily case counts hit all-time highs Thursday and Friday, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University .The average, taken over the previous seven days, says more about overall trends than do single-day numbers. Single-day figures can reflect testing backlogs that recently cleared, making it appear as if there were a bigger spike in cases on any given day than actually occurred.New Jersey, for example, logged a seven-day average of more than 3,500 cases per day in its first coronavirus wave in early April. The state now appears to be reaching a second peak, logging a seven-day average of more than 4,000 cases per day an average of 4,221 on Friday, to be exact.Testing has yet to capture the full effect of Thanksgiving travel and gatherings. More than 3 million Americans traveled by plane during the holiday week. About 50 million are estimated to have traveled by car over the holiday. It usually takes a few days up to two weeks for coronavirus symptoms to appear and prompt infected people to seek a test. The true effect of holiday travel will not become apparent until next week.Daily death totals are climbing along with new cases, even though doctors now have better ways to treat the viruss symptoms.Nine states hit a particularly grim milestone: More than 1 in every 1,000 residents have died of COVID-19 in Connecticut, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Mississippi, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island and North and South Dakota, according to The Washington Post .Health care systems are being stretched thin in nearly all states, which face a shortage of available beds or staff or both.Such shortages mean that patients may not receive the care they need in a timely manner, whether they come in with symptoms of COVID-19 or a heart attack.Officials in Travis County, Texas, which includes Austin, are reportedly very concerned about both hospital capacity and staffing shortages during the holiday season. In Michigan, six hospitals are reportedly at full capacity , and another 18 are at 90% capacity or more.New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy voiced deep concern about the issue of health care staffing this week. That is the one thing that I think keeps us up at night. The staffing piece, he told NorthJersey.com .When New Jersey battled its first wave of coronavirus infections along with New York the countrys coronavirus epicenter in the spring it got help from doctors who were able to fly or drive in from states less affected by the virus at the time. As the virus surges across the U.S., New Jersey and other states cannot count on out-of-state volunteers to shore up hospital staff.Health officials pleaded with Americans to stay home for Thanksgiving and to shop online rather than in person on Black Friday.A sacrifice now could save lives and illness and make the future much brighter as we get through this, Dr. Anthony Fauci, the nations top expert on infectious disease, told Good Morning America before the holiday.That message is not likely to change for the Christmas, Hanukkah and New Years holidays ahead.All 16 of the states are: Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Kansas, Michigan, Nevada, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Washington and West Virginia. A HuffPost Guide To Coronavirus Which airlines are blocking out middle seats for holiday travel? How does the coronavirus spread differently than the flu? Can you close your COVID bubble without losing friends forever? Is it safe to see grandparents over the holidays? How can you help a friend with anxiety when youre also struggling ? Everyone deserves accurate information about COVID-19. Support journalism without a paywall and keep it free for everyone by becoming a HuffPost member today. 
SANTA FE, N.M. (AP) Faulting inaction in Washington, governors and state lawmakers are racing to get pandemic relief to small-business owners, the unemployed, renters, and others whose livelihoods have been upended by the widening coronavirus outbreak.In some cases, elected officials are spending the last of a federal relief package passed in the spring as an end-of-year deadline approaches and the fall COVID-19 surge threatens their economies anew. Democrats have been the most vocal in criticizing President Donald Trump and the GOP-controlled Senate for failing to act, but many Republican lawmakers are also sounding the alarm.Underscoring the need for urgency, the number of new COVID-19 cases reported in the United States reached 205,557 on Friday, according to data from Johns Hopkins University the first time its daily figure topped the 200,000 mark. Its previous daily high was 196,000 on Nov. 20.The total number of cases reported in the U.S., since the first one in January, has topped 13 million.The Democratic governors of Colorado and New Mexico convened special legislative sessions in the closing days of November to address the virus-related emergency. Earlier this week, the New Mexico Legislature passed a bipartisan relief bill that will deliver a one-time $1,200 check to all unemployed workers and give up to $50,000 to certain businesses.Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham said the state took action to help residents who have real issues about keeping food on their table, a roof over their head.While the United States of America is on fire, the Trump administration has left states to fight this virus on their own, she said, noting state efforts alone simply are not enough. It is clear no help is coming not from this president, not from this administration. As we have done every day this year, New Mexico will step up.In Colorado, a special session scheduled for Monday will consider roughly $300 million in relief to businesses, restaurants and bars, child-care providers, landlords, tenants, public schools, and others.Even as cases have exploded across the country, Congress and the president have not yet passed much-needed relief for people, Colorado Gov. Jared Polis said in announcing the session. Here in Colorado, we want to do the best with what we have to take care of our own.In New Jersey and Washington state, Republicans who are a minority in both legislatures were the ones pushing for special sessions. They want to direct more money to struggling small-business owners.Republican lawmakers in Wisconsin, who control both houses of the Legislature, are considering whether to return in December to address the effects of the latest coronavirus wave after Democratic Gov. Tony Evers put forward a $500 million COVID-19 relief bill earlier this week. Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz, a Democrat, plans to convene lawmakers in December to contend with the virus, partially at Republicans urging.Senate Republicans are committed to recovering our economy that has been harmed by broad and prolonged shutdowns, Minnesota Senate Majority Leader Paul Gazelka said in a statement. We will work with anyone to find solutions.State government leaders want Trump and Congress to extend the Dec. 30 deadline for spending virus relief money already allocated under the CARES Act, which was approved in March, and to provide more federal funding to deal with the consequences of the latest surge.Its just heartbreaking what theyre allowing to happen with no federal government intervention, said Washington state House Speaker Laurie Jinkins, a Democrat.In making his decision to call the Minnesota Legislature into a special session, Walz cited a sense of urgency around doing something on the state level due to the lack of a federal response.The Minnesota Council of Nonprofits reported that more than half of the states charitable organizations received forgivable loans through the CARES Acts Paycheck Protection Program this year, while another $12 million from the CARES Act is going to organizations that provide food to the needy. But all that will be spent or lost by the end of December without congressional action.I would reiterate to our federal partners to the outgoing administration and to the incoming Biden administration please work together, please find a compromise in there, please. If you have to, move a package now with the idea that you will come back and move one later, Walz said. COVID is not going to end at the end of the month. We are in an unrelenting spike.In Ohio, where Republicans control every branch of government, Gov. Mike DeWine and legislative leaders pushed a $420 million pandemic spending package through a special bipartisan panel late last month. Funded through the CARES Act, it offered grants to small businesses, bars and restaurants, low-income renters, arts groups, and colleges and universities.Pennsylvania House Majority Leader Kerry Benninghoff, a Republican, gives credit to the federal government for the billions in aid previously sent out, but he said small businesses and people who have lost work need more federal assistance.The elections over, Benninghoff said. This is not a time for finger-pointing.In neighboring New Jersey, the partisan divide over $4 billion in COVID-19 borrowing backed by the Democratic governor and Legislature prompted a court challenge by minority Republicans. The states high court sided with Gov. Phil Murphys administration, citing the unprecedented nature of the outbreak.Even so, Murphy has regularly pleaded with Congress for more aid.Its shameful that they have not acted in Congress, especially (Senate Majority Leader Mitch) McConnell and the Republican Senate, to throw a lifeline to small businesses, he said.Republicans have proposed a $300 million aid package to small businesses and nonprofits, but the legislation is stalled. GOP lawmakers told the governor if he does not call a special session to address the need, many businesses and charities might not survive the winter.Lawmakers in one state, Illinois, threw up their hands and went home despite an unaddressed $3.9 billion budget deficit. They cited the health threat posed by the virus and hope for help from the nations capital.If the federal government doesnt stand up and step in, were in a very bad situation for our schools, colleges and universities, health care programs, child care, senior services, House Majority Leader Greg Harris, a Democrat, said. This isnt like all the blue states are hurting and all the red states are humming along. Everybodys in bad shape.___Carr Smyth reported from Columbus, Ohio. Associated Press writers Jim Anderson and Patricia Nieberg in Denver; Michael Catalini in Newark, N.J.; Steve Karnowski in Minneapolis; Rachel La Corte in Olympia, Wash.; Geoff Mulvihill in Davenport, Iowa; John OConnor in Springfield, Ill.; and Mark Scolforo in Harrisburg, Pa., contributed to this report.
MILWAUKEE (AP) The coronavirus testing numbers that have guided much of the nations response to the pandemic are likely to be erratic over the next week or so, experts said Friday, as fewer people get tested during the Thanksgiving holiday weekend and testing sites observe shorter hours.The result could be potential dips in reported infections that offer the illusion that the spread of the virus is easing when, in fact, the numbers say little about where the nation stands in fighting COVID-19.The number of Americans who have tested positive passed 13 million Friday, according to Johns Hopkins University.I just hope that people dont misinterpret the numbers and think that there wasnt a major surge as a result of Thanksgiving, and then end up making Christmas and Hanukkah and other travel plans, said Dr. Leana Wen, a professor at George Washington University and an emergency physician.A similar pattern unfolds on many weekends. Because some testing centers, labs and state offices are closed on Saturdays and Sundays, COVID case numbers often drop each Sunday and Monday, only to peak on Tuesday.Dr. Mark Rupp, professor and chief of infectious diseases at the University of Nebraska Medical Center in Omaha, said the effect of Thanksgiving is likely to be a magnified version of the weekend figures.The Thursday holiday will exacerbate the record-keeping discrepancies over the long weekend, artificially depressing the reported numbers for four or five days before spiking as test results catch up.Johns Hopkins University reported a high of more than 2 million tests a few days before Thanksgiving as people prepared to travel, but that number had dropped to less than 1.2 million tests on Thanksgiving Day. The latter number, as well as positive case numbers, which had dropped by about a third Friday, could be adjusted as more results are returned.In several states and cities, officials reported sharp drops in testing Friday and reminded people not to read improvements into them. Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson said the drop means that residents might not know for weeks how much their efforts to slow the spread affected the states rate of positive tests.While testing was down Thursday and Friday, health officials said they anecdotally saw a jump in people getting tested before deciding to travel or gather for Thanksgiving meals. They warned that the tests are often a snapshot, not a complete assurance that someone has not been exposed to the virus.I think it can be kind of a false sense of security for some people, Rupp said, predicting that the holiday will be followed within weeks by another surge because people have continued to travel, theyve continued to have gatherings outside their immediate family.Experts worry how people might interpret the situation after the long weekend, especially if it takes a few weeks for Thanksgiving exposures to show up in testing data.Cities and states generally use hospitalization and intensive care numbers, which lag behind virus case reporting, to determine when to increase or ease public health restrictions and recommendations. But the public is more likely to look at testing numbers or case counts, which might be misleading, Wen said, and waiting until hospitals are overwhelmed is risky.Where we are now is a completely unsustainable place. I think its extremely frustrating to those of us in health care to see our calls are not being heeded, Wen said. And the level of alarm that we have is not reflected in individuals behavior. A HuffPost Guide To Coronavirus Which airlines are blocking out middle seats for holiday travel? How does the coronavirus spread differently than the flu? Can you close your COVID bubble without losing friends forever? Is it safe to see grandparents over the holidays? How can you help a friend with anxiety when youre also struggling ? Everyone deserves accurate information about COVID-19. Support journalism without a paywall and keep it free for everyone by becoming a HuffPost member today. 
SYDNEY (Reuters) Australias second-largest state, Victoria, once the countrys COVID-19 hotspot, said on Friday it has gone 28 days without detecting any new infections, a benchmark widely cited as eliminating the virus from the community.The state also has zero active cases after the last COVID-19 patient was discharged from hospital this week, a far cry from August when Victoria recorded more than 700 cases in one day and active infections totalled nearly 8,000.The spread of the virus was only contained after a lockdown lasting more than 100 days, leaving some 5 million people in Melbourne, Australias second largest city, largely confined to their homes.While the lockdown has seen infections wane, it slowed Australias economic recovery from its first recession in three decades after large swathes of the countrys economy were shut down in March.Australias economy shrank 7% in the three months to the end of June, the biggest quarterly decline since records began in 1959. The unemployment rate hit a 22-year high of 7.5% in July as businesses and borders closed to deal with the coronavirus.The slowdown in cases, however, has seen Australian states and territories remove social distancing restrictions.Australias southern island state, Tasmania, on Friday became the latest to open its border to Victoria, reuniting families who had been apart for months.It has been very difficult, but we are going to make up for it. We are going to go to the beach and have beautiful Tasmanian seafood and some pinot noir, Allison Park, a Victoria resident visiting family in Tasmania, told reporters in the city of Hobart after arriving on a plane from Melbourne.Victoria is the last state to gain access to Tasmania, which closed its borders in March.While Australia is removing restrictions in contrast to other countries in Europe, which are imposing curbs to counter a surge of infections, local lawmakers have said only an effective vaccine will restore longstanding normalcy.Australia has secured access to four vaccine candidates, but its best hope for a quick vaccination programme lies with the AstraZeneca vaccine, which is already being manufactured locally.The Australian Government has committed to buying 33.8 million doses of the vaccine.A speedy roll-out of the AstraZeneca came under the microscope, however, when the company said it will likely run an additional global trial to assess the efficacy of its COVID-19 vaccine.Still, Australias Minister for Health Greg Hunt said this would not delay Canberras expected timetable to begin vaccinations from March.Australias nearly 28,000 COVID-19 infections recorded to date, according to health ministry data, are far fewer than many other developed countries. Victoria accounts for more than 90% of the countrys 905 deaths.
