Like everyone else, I charge my phone on my nightstand. Within minutes of waking, I reach for it and from the cozy warmth of my bed, I check my personal emails, respond to texts, look through my news alerts, dawdle over Instagram, and scroll through Facebook to see whats been going on in my sphere while my eyes are still bleary.Before my workday responsibilities, which include managing my companys social media accounts, I take the time to go through my own.It may not be a healthy habit, but its a common ritual I share with many. Innocuous, universal, unremarkable.However, since the crisis of the COVID-19 pandemic reared its ugly head, this ritual has become a source of dread. As my Facebook feed loads, I feel tendrils of anxiety unfurl from my stomach. My heart beats a little faster, my breath catches, and I feel a weight in my chest, nervous about what fresh attack awaits me.Im not alone in this trepidation. Pandemic conspiracy theories are rife as people grow tired of the limitations of quarantine and spend too much time in the deepest recesses of their thoughts. Political rants, misinformation and finger-pointing rhetoric have mounted to crescendos as folks feel increasingly helpless against the onslaught of bad news and lash out. But you see, I am first-generation Chinese with an ethnic name. And to a shockingly, overwhelmingly large amount of my fellow citizens most recently demonstrated by this divisive election I am part of the problem.Beyond the worry for my health as part of the susceptible population of sufferers of autoimmune disease, beyond my fears for immunocompromised immediate family members and my concerns for my future prospects and job security as a writer specializing in two of the hardest-hit industries travel and food I have the additional burden of apology to shoulder. The responsibility to defend an entire country of people to which, as an ABC (American-born Chinese), I have no more than ancestral kinship.It started with the harmful rhetoric Chinese virus. With President Donald Trump s insistent usage of this slur, he put a target squarely on the back of one minority group. In April, I put up one post on my personal Facebook, asking for friends to scrub this term from their vernacular.It incited a flame war.Extended members of a family I was once welcomed into with open arms released hateful words in defense of our president, convinced that my plea was an attack on him. They told me and friends who sprang to my defense to get out of this country if we didnt like it something Ive heard throughout my life, but didnt think Id hear from folks who had me over for Sunday dinners, people Ive celebrated and mourned with.People who I thought were my friends refused to understand why I was upset by the use of this term. They didnt want to read about how pinning the diseases origin on one culture put all Asians at risk; didnt want to hear about why I was afraid that the types of patriotic vigilante justice committed against those of Middle Eastern descent after 9/11 could repeat itself targeting my family members, or even myself.In short, they made it quite clear they didnt want to hear from me , as a human being. Deeply shaken, I turned my notifications off.* * *Although much of this nastiness sprouted from the virtual world , as Id feared it didnt stay there. The pandemic has seen an uptick of violence against Asians , toward the people , their businesses , and their communities at large. Chinatowns in Canada were vandalized and temples desecrated . Asian-Americans including those of Vietnamese, Korean, Japanese descent alike were spat on , harassed, and attacked in streets and even parking lots across America. As infection numbers mounted, so did the instances of prejudice at work as many as 100 a day in March, according to Rep. Judy Chu (D-Calif.) in an impassioned plea to discontinue use of the term Chinese virus on MSNBC.The Stop AAPI Hate website, aimed at addressing anti-Asian American discrimination amid the pandemic, logged over 2,500 physical or verbal attacks between March and August. Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter all released statements to Al Jazeeras reporters saying theyve asked users to report instances of this verbal abuse.As recently as October, after Trumps positive COVID-19 diagnosis, anti-Asian rhetoric and Chinese conspiracy theories took a shocking 85% spike on Twitter, proving the danger was far from over its instead cyclical. Hostilities rose again with rapid speed as Asians around the world pleaded for humanization with desperate cries begging for acknowledgment that #IAmNotAVirus .In keeping with the model minority tradition, many Asian victims of hate-motivated crimes or harassment decline to report these instances, brushing them off as an anticipated price we all pay for our American tradition of systemic racism. Commander William Slaton of the Pennsylvania state police has speculated that this could be due to a variety of factors: fear of embarrassment, lack of community support, and fear that law enforcement wont seriously investigate their concerns.In my experience as a first-generation Chinese-American woman in a predominantly white neighborhood, prejudice was the price of entry and accepted as a regrettable matter of fact. To cry about it was weak, to demand action is to be a community nuisance, and to call attention to it was putting a target on, not just your familys, but your peoples backs. Youre expected to keep your head down and mouth shut, to fly beneath the radar and let your hard work and perseverance validate your existence.In a collective effort to remain a model minority, we delude ourselves in believing that racism has disappeared in the generations since our ancestors immigrated, that the incidents that fo occur are isolated and a result of being in the wrong place at the wrong time with the wrong person, and not hate-fueled actions. And of course, friends dont want to face that those they care about can be perceived as nameless, blurry-faced targets. Who wants to have that kind of worry on their shoulders, when they themselves dont see color or dont think of [you] that way, as I have seen in comments on Facebook walls? Which is yet another disheartening reason opening social media feeds has become such a trial.Tokenization is already something people of color have to battle, and as people fight to choose the side of right in a world full of shades of gray, it eats away at you to see folks you know, attempting to be allies, use statements like but I have an XYZ friend to virtue-signal their liberal ideologies and open-mindedness.I began to wonder, am I the Asian friend? Am I the significant other being referred to when people comment I know someone who is with a Chinese person, and they would never ? Have I been reduced to Exhibit A?* * *Sometimes, I take half a Xanax before bed. I take them with reserve and caution, due to their addictive nature. I wait until the thrumming of my low-level panic rises just enough to vibrate through the invisible hairs on my arms and I cant sleep, too fixated on the single, probably inane reason Im freaking out.Were many months into this pandemic, yet I continue to confront a stream of anxiety-inducing trigger statements every time I log onto social media, a sudden feeling of impotence and voicelessness. The angry, finger-pointing post I couldnt respond to. The hurtful comment or joke made by someone who forgot they had a Chinese friend on their list. The patronization of those trying to walk the line between being a white savior or an ally. Fact-shamers on the left and right, neither of whom will listen to the other in favor of actual facts.It is emotional labor just to be exposed to this, and especially when your job is in communications and social media, its unavoidable. I see things I cant respond to, read things I cant refute. I am exposed to behind closed doors rhetoric on corporate feeds, spewed by racist brand followers who assume theyre in a safe space since the account theyre friends with is a company and not an individual faceless, anonymous, neutral and consummately professional.So I stifle my outrage, bite my tongue, and let it eat at me, abjectly powerless to do anything else but try to push it down, to try to allow room for hope and light.But every night, I am tired. Every night, I am drained. And yet every morning, I steel myself, heart in throat, and click my phone on. Do you have a compelling personal story youd like to see published on HuffPost?Find out what were looking for here and send us a pitch ! 
President-elect Joe Biden supports congressional Democrats in holding out for a more comprehensive coronavirus relief package than Republicans have been willing to support, a spokesman for the presidential transition said Monday.The New York Times had reported over the weekend that advisers to Biden wanted Democratic leaders in Congress to reach a quick stimulus deal with Senate Republicans, even if it falls short of the larger package Democrats have been seeking.On Monday, Bidens spokesman called the story incorrect.For months, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) have pushed for a large stimulus bill they say is needed to jump-start the economy and provide additional relief to millions of Americans suffering amid the coronavirus pandemic.The President-elect fully supports the Speaker and Leader in their negotiations, Biden transition spokesman Andrew Bates told HuffPost when asked about the Times story on Monday.Nearly 12 million people are set to lose federal unemployment benefits next month unless lawmakers agree to a deal extending relief measures they passed early in the pandemic. A moratorium on evictions, student debt forbearance and tax breaks are also at risk of expiring.Democrats have been pushing for a multitrillion-dollar package of new relief while Republicans remain flatly opposed to a large spending bill. The monthslong standoff threatens to kneecap a sputtering economy saddled with historically high unemployment claims that are on the rise once again.Biden last week held his first in-person meeting with Pelosi and Schumer since the Nov. 3 election. At the president-elects transition office in Wilmington, Delaware, the three Democratic leaders projected a unified front on stimulus negotiations, saying in a statement afterward that lawmakers needed to pass a bipartisan emergency aid package in the lame-duck session, before Congress adjourns for the year.Its unlikely that will happen anytime soon, however. Republicans who have rediscovered fiscal conservatism following President Donald Trumps loss are hoping to retain control of the Senate in January after two runoff elections in Georgia, an outcome that would give them an upper hand in negotiations with Bidens incoming administration.Looks like Pelosi still calling the shots, Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) tweeted on Monday in response to Bidens team suggesting he was on the same page as congressional Democrats.Kristine Astolfi of Las Vegas has been unemployed since April, when she lost her job with a company that designs and builds trade show booths. With the virus spreading like crazy, the trade show industry, like many others that rely on big rooms full of people, has begged Congress for more help .Astolfi, 57, said shes been frantically applying for jobs that would pay enough for her to make car and house payments, but hasnt been getting any callbacks. The unemployment rate in Las Vegas in September, according to the most recent data, was 14.8% much higher than the national average.Theyre going to hire all the young people before I get a job, she said.Her savings are dwindling, and she feels shes only got enough money to make it through January.Its very, very scary, and I have no idea whats going to happen, Astolfi said. I wish Congress didnt have to send us more money, but I have no idea what else we can do.
When he takes office on Jan. 20, President-elect Joe Biden will inherit a raging pandemic that has claimed 254,000 American lives and counting , and his team will face the daunting task of turning around the Trump administration s disastrous federal response.One of the first places they should look for course-correction is the Occupational Safety and Health Administration .Under Trump, OSHA has largely left employers to police themselves when it comes to preventing coronavirus exposure at work. The agency has performed inspections for only a tiny fraction of the thousands of worker complaints that have poured in since March. It has levied relatively puny fines for violations, even in cases where workers died. And it has issued no new regulations to address the specific challenges of this pandemic.Safety experts and former OSHA officials say the workplace policies of the Trump administration could be reversed some of them quickly and unilaterally and that doing so could help save the lives of not just workers but their families and neighbors, too.Its important to think of this not just as worker protection. Its community protection, said Gregory Wagner, a physician and former adviser at the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, which is part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (and not OSHA). We hope a new approach by a new administration can make a difference.Issue A Clear Regulation For CoronavirusOne thing the Biden administration could do immediately is put in place a temporary emergency standard spelling out exactly what employers must do to protect workers from the coronavirus.On Day 1, they should be ready to go with a standard, said Peg Seminario, who directed the AFL-CIO labor federations safety program before retiring last year.Occupational health experts have pleaded with the administration to do this the AFL-CIO even filed a failed lawsuit against OSHA but the Trump White House has refused to put any new requirements on businesses. Instead, OSHA has offered largely voluntary guidance, much of it with gaping loopholes like the advice that meatpacking plants separate workers by at least 6 feet if feasible.An emergency standard would not have to go through the cumbersome federal rulemaking process. It would last six months, giving OSHA a new tool for enforcement into the summer, at which point a vaccine might be widely available.States including Virginia and California have already issued COVID-19 workplace safety regulations, providing a model specific to the pandemic.Its not just good for employees but for employers, too, said Mark Lauritsen, head of the meatpacking division at the United Food and Commercial Workers union. Theyll know what they have to do. Theres been no guidance from this federal government.Do More Coronavirus InspectionsNew leaders at OSHA could also ramp up workplace inspections specifically for the coronavirus. As of Thursday, workers have submitted more than 10,600 coronavirus-related complaints to the agency, but OSHA has opened only 250 inspections as a result of them. In other words, only 1 out of every 42 complaints has led to an inspection.Instead, most cases appear to be closed after a brief phone-and-fax investigation, in which employers simply explain to OSHA in writing how theyre addressing the hazards raised in the complaint. Several workers have told HuffPost they were surprised and disappointed at how difficult it was to get an on-the-ground inspection during the pandemic.Research has already shown that a spike in worker complaints has tended to precede a spike in deaths from COVID-19 throughout the pandemic. For the most part, the complaints have been a missed opportunity to intervene .David Michaels, who headed OSHA during Barack Obamas presidency, has said the agency should be doing random inspections in high-risk fields like farming and meatpacking. Such targeted enforcement could help keep unscrupulous employers on their toes, giving them more to fear if theyre recklessly putting employees at risk.Sheryl Mount, a registered nurse at Virtua Memorial Hospital in New Jersey and a union representative for the Health Professionals and Allied Employees, said her union has pressured the local OSHA office to investigate documented hazards and filed what it believed to be 10 valid complaints. But that has led to just one violation determination and a $13,494 fine.We did not get the citations we thought we deserved, said Mount, who spoke Thursday on a call hosted by the National Council for Occupational Safety and Health. Its been very, very disappointing. We do feel disposable. They say were heroes. We cant stand that term. Is a hero someone thats willing to go into a workplace without proper protection?In a statement, a spokesperson for OSHA defended the agencys performance during the pandemic, saying it has investigated all the allegations that have come its way: OSHA is working around-the-clock to protect Americas workers, and any attempt to disparage their historic work is misguided.Issue Bigger Fines For COVID-19 HazardsThrough Nov. 12, OSHA had issued 232 fines stemming from coronavirus hazards, totaling $3,148,452. Thats an average penalty of just $13,570 per citation. Many of those initial fines will certainly be reduced in some cases considerably through negotiations between the employers and OSHA officials.Safety experts say the size of those fines leaves employers with little to worry about if they put their workers in danger.Meatpacking companies have received only a handful of fines so far, even though the industry has seen some of the worst coronavirus outbreaks in the country. Take the case of JBS, the largest meatpacking company in the world. Eight workers from the companys Greeley, Colorado, plant died of COVID-19, and OSHA fined the facility just $15,615. Brazil-based JBS had net profits of $581 million last quarter.According to OSHA data released this week, the largest fine so far related to coronavirus was for $32,965, issued against a New Jersey nursing home.Debbie Berkowitz, a safety expert at the National Employment Law Project, described the fines as slaps on the wrist. She said the agency would normally cite about 15,000 workplaces for violations in an eight-month period and called the citations so far a pathetic response to the greatest occupational health crisis in our lifetimes .Many of the citations are for smaller infractions, like failing to record illnesses, rather than more grave violations, like failing to provide personal protective equipment to workers. No employer so far has received a willful or repeat violation from OSHA for a coronavirus hazard. Such fines come with a stiffer maximum penalty of $134,937.Critics of the Trump administrations response said they would also like to see OSHA move faster in a Biden administration. The agency has six months to issue a citation from the date of an alleged violation. Its common for inspectors to use most of that time to build a case, but a pandemic is not a normal situation. Intervening earlier could help prevent more workers from getting sick.Mount, who recovered from the coronavirus earlier this year, said her union has continued to file complaints against hospitals where members dont feel protected from the virus. She said nurses already feel tired and overworked; having to pressure the government for inspections only adds to the stress.We should not have to work so hard to get OSHA to do its job, she said. Everyone deserves accurate information about COVID-19. Support journalism without a paywall and keep it free for everyone by becoming a HuffPost member today. A HuffPost Guide To Coronavirus Heres the latest science on COVID antibodies. How does the coronavirus spread differently than the flu? What does the new CDC definition of a COVID-19 close contact mean for you? Is it safe to see grandparents for the holidays? Therapists predict how this year will shape our mental health. 
