(Reuters) - Dr. Drew Miller knew his patient had to be moved.The vital signs of the 30-year-old COVID-19 victim were crashing, and Kearny County Hospital in rural Lakin, Kansas, just wasnt equipped to handle the case. Miller, Kearnys chief medical officer - who doubles as the county health officer - called around to larger hospitals in search of an ICU bed. With coronavirus cases soaring throughout Kansas, he said, he couldnt find a single one.By the time a bed opened elsewhere the following day, the young man was near death. For a full 45 minutes, Miller and his staff performed chest compressions in a desperate attempt to save him.Somehow, Miller said, the patient regained a pulse, and was dispatched in an ambulance to the larger facility about 25 miles away. Miller then prayed with the family, whom he knew very well from Lakin, a town of just a few thousand people.Its truly a miracle he has survived, Miller said.After pounding big U.S. cities in the spring, COVID-19 now has engulfed rural and small-town America, seeming to seep into the countrys every nook and cranny. According to Reuters interviews with more than a dozen medical care providers and public health officials in the nations heartland, many hospitals are severely lacking in beds, equipment and - most critically - clinical staff, including specialists and nurses.COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations are spiking nationally. But the Midwest - encompassing a dozen states between Ohio and the Dakotas - has been especially brutalized. Reported case rates are more than double that of any other region in the United States, according to the COVID Tracking Project, a volunteer-run data provider. From mid-June to mid-November, reported cases in the Midwest rose more than twentyfold.For the week ending November 19, North Dakota reported an average of 1,769 daily new cases per 1 million residents, according to the tracking project. South Dakota recorded nearly 1,500 per million residents, Wisconsin and Nebraska around 1,200, and Kansas nearly 1,000. Even in New Yorks worst week in April - with business closed and panic gripping the public - the state never averaged more than 500 new cases per million people. California never topped 253.Hospital officials in the Midwest told Reuters theyre at capacity or nearly so. Most have tried to increase availability by repurposing wings or cramming multiple patients in a single room, and by asking staffers to work longer hours and more frequent shifts.Facilities like Kearny, known as critical access hospitals, werent made for this. Often sparsely funded, they mainly provide basic or emergency care to residents who live long distances away from bigger medical centers. Now, we have to plan on being able to care for whomever comes in, said Miller, whose specialty is family medicine.As cases spike in many conservative states and counties, medical workers say they often face a challenge just in convincing patients and local leaders that the disease should be taken seriously and isnt a Democrat-perpetuated hoax.Such viewpoints flow from the top. President Donald Trump often has held shoulder-to-shoulder rallies in the Midwest and elsewhere and treated masks as a matter of personal choice. Although Trump was not re-elected, about two months remain in his tenure, with little sign of change in his coronavirus strategy, even as the crisis grows.The White House press office did not respond to a request for comment.Some medical officials and hospital staffers find it hard to reconcile laissez-faire policies with the sickness and suffering they see.Theres a disconnect in the community, where were seeing people at bars and restaurants, or planning Thanksgiving dinners, said Dr. Kelly Cawcutt, an infectious disease doctor at the University of Nebraska Medical Center. As health workers, she said, we feel kind of dejected.All told, COVID-19 has claimed more than 256,000 lives in the United States. The virus mortality rate has dropped as doctors have learned more about the disease, and vaccines developed by Moderna Inc, Pfizer Inc and others could hit the market early next year. In the meantime, smaller hospitals say they are employing the same drugs - such as remdesivir and dexamethasone - that big-city facilities do, but dont have the same access to ICU equipment or specialized expertise.With low temperatures sending people indoors and holiday travel underway, doctors in the region arent expecting relief anytime soon.I dont think the worst is here yet, Miller said.FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORSHospital leaders described demoralization among staffers struggling to reckon with overwork, grief and death.Shortages of staff, rather than beds, are the biggest single problem in many hospitals, the health officials said. Just because you can take a cot and put it in a room doesnt mean you have the appropriate nursing staff to care for a patient, said Dr. Anthony Hericks, director of critical care with Avera Health in Sioux Falls, South Dakota.Nurses must observe COVID-19 patients even more closely than others, because of the potential for rapid decline, said Melisa Hazell, a critical care nurse at Hutchinson Regional Medical Center, in Hutchinson, Kansas. She said she recently recovered from COVID-19 herself, returning to work as soon as she was certain she wouldnt spread the virus.I was off for 12 days, she said. Was I mentally and physically ready to go back to work? No, but my teammates needed me.Remote hospitals dont keep a full staff on board in the best of times. They hire traveling nurses as the number of patients surge. Now its tough to find any available.Aya Health, a San Diego, California-based nurse staffing agency, was posting around 14,000 open positions in the spring, said April Hansen, an executive vice president. That number has now doubled, she said, and pay rates have shot up with demand.Mary Helland, a chief nursing officer with CommonSpirit Health in North Dakota, said she has put in requests for traveling nurses for the 11 critical access hospitals she oversees in North Dakota and Minnesota. But bigger hospitals are using them all up, she said.At Hutchinson Regional, which has 190 beds, Chief Nursing Officer Amanda Hullet has begun taking floor shifts, even though she had long since graduated to a desk job.The physical and emotional fatigue is constant, Hullet said, and even harder when the patient is a close friend or colleague.Hullet recalled the recent deaths of local couple Bill and Judy Mason, just weeks apart, from COVID-19. Judy had taught dance in town for decades, Hullet said, and her students included some of the hospitals employees.Holly Thomas, 37, who is married to the couples grandson, said Judy was the glue that kept the family together.Referring to COVID-19 the Midwest, Thomas said we sat by idly from March to August not seeing a whole lot. Now she hears of about two deaths a day. My PE teacher from high school and his wife died within 12 hours of each other, too, she said.Hazell, the Hutchinson Regional nurse, encountered a patient who was a former bowling buddy. Hes just fantastic, she said. Great heart, always willing to sit down and share a story or two.Hes on a ventilator now, not doing well. Over next week or two, theres going to be some tough decisions, she said.FED UPMedical workers told Reuters that denial about the disease is frustratingly common among public officials, community members and even patients.One patient at SSM Health in Janesville, Wisconsin, refused to believe COVID-19 was a serious threat, even as it consumed him, said Dr. Alison Schwartz, an infectious disease physician there. When he died, the family did not want to admit this patient had died of COVID, because they didnt believe COVID kills people, she said.Some Midwestern states and local jurisdictions been loath to mandate masks or social distancing.Nebraska Governor Pete Ricketts, a Republican, went so far as to say he would not allow municipalities to impose mask mandates.Ricketts office declined to comment, but the governor said in a Nov. 13 press conference, Im against broad-based mandates in favor of educating people about how to use masks.Masks work, but theyre just one tool, Ricketts said, urging people to also focus on keeping their distance and avoiding large gatherings.South Dakota Governor Kristi Noem has refused to mandate mask-wearing, and has not imposed restrictions on businesses or public gatherings, saying she would leave such matters to individual responsibility. In July, she hosted an Independence Day celebration with Trump at Mt. Rushmore, where the crowd was close together and many attendees were maskless.Doctors say trying to change such behavior can feel like a hopeless task. Everyone [is] continuing to go about their lives, Schwartz said, but we sort of feel like were drowning.(Nick Brown reported from New York; Callaghan OHare contributed reporting from Lakin and Hutchinson, Kansas. Editing by Julie Marquis)
The family of a 70-year-old Florida Publix worker who died from the coronavirus in April is suing the supermarket chain, claiming its prohibition against workers wearing masks at the start of the pandemic directly caused his death.Because of its careless decisions, our father is not here with us today, Gerardo Gerry Gutierrezs daughter, Ariane Gutierrez, said in a statement Monday following the filing of her wrongful death lawsuit. The suit, filed in Miami-Dade County, seeks more than $30,000 in damages.Gutierrez was working at a Miami Beach stores deli in late March when a co-worker began coughing and showing other signs of COVID-19, according to the lawsuit. At the time, employees of the Florida-based chain were prohibited from wearing protective face masks, with the company telling them masks would scare customers.Gutierrezs co-worker was not sent home until days later, after she tested positive for the virus, according to the suit. Gutierrez, on April 2, was asked to self-isolate as a precaution.Gutierrez soon showed signs of the virus, including a cough and a fever, and was hospitalized. He died alone on April 28 following a video call with his four adult children, his family said.The sudden passing of our father has been a devastating loss to our family,Ariane Gutierrez said. Our family is in shock that Publix would prevent its employees from staying safe.A Publix representative did not respond to HuffPosts request for comment on Tuesday.It wasnt until after Gutierrez fell ill that Publix began allowing its employees to wear masks and gloves at work.This came after rival grocery chains, including Kroger, began allowing employees to wear masks, according to the familys lawsuit.You have a company like Publix that profited greatly throughout the pandemic on the backs of employees like Gerardo Gutierrez, and youd imagine the least they could do for those people who showed up at work was to protect their own employees, said the familys attorney, Michael Levine. And then to learn they wouldnt let their employees wear masks, because they thought it would scare off their customers. Thats just very troubling.As the pandemic tightened its grip on the U.S. in the spring, federal health officials initially urged people against wearing masks so they wouldnt drain scarce supplies from medical workers. At the time, scientists didnt know how easily the virus spreads through the air. Face masks are now widely recommended.Other companies face similar lawsuits.Walmart was sued in April by the family of a worker at an Illinois store who contracted the virus and died. The mans family accused the retailer of failing to adequately screen and protect workers or follow federal health safety guidelines.The family of an Ohio meatpacker who died from COVID-19 in April sued Tyson Foods in October, alleging the company failed to protect its employees. A HuffPost Guide To Coronavirus Which airlines are blocking out middle seats for holiday travel? How does the coronavirus spread differently than the flu? Can you close your COVID bubble without losing friends forever? Is it safe to see grandparents over the holidays? How can you help a friend with anxiety when youre also struggling ? Everyone deserves accurate information about COVID-19. Support journalism without a paywall and keep it free for everyone by becoming a HuffPost member today. 
U.S. Surgeon General Jerome Adams on Monday cautioned people to be smart with their Thanksgiving celebrations this year to help reduce the spread of the coronavirus .Adams also applied his warning to outgoing President Donald Trump s White House, which plans on hosting in-person, indoor holiday parties despite soaring numbers of COVID-19 infections, hospitalizations and deaths nationwide.I want the American people to know that we are at a dire point in our fight with this virus by any measure, Adams said on Mondays broadcast of Good Morning America.Were seeing more Americans negatively impacted than ever before, he continued. Im asking Americans, begging you, hold on just a little bit longer. Keep Thanksgiving and the celebration small and smart this year.When asked if the White House holiday parties could potentially become superspreader events, as the election night party held at the White House is believed to have been , Adams replied in the affirmative.We want everyone to understand that these holiday celebrations can be superspreader events, so we want them to be smart and we want them to be as small as possible, Adams said. But again, go to CDC.gov. Look at those tips for everyone. These apply to the White House, they apply to the American people, they apply to everyone.Postponing travel and staying home is the best way to protect yourself and others this year, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention advises on its website.The White House said its annual Hanukkah reception and Christmas party would only involve a small guest list, with attendees mandated to wear face masks.But critics have their doubts, given that the president has repeatedly flouted his own governments safety recommendations. He also held multiple crowded campaign rallies during the 2020 election, where his maskless supporters stood in close quarters despite health experts advice to socially distance. A HuffPost Guide To Coronavirus Which airlines are blocking out middle seats for holiday travel? How does the coronavirus spread differently than the flu? Can you close your COVID bubble without losing friends forever? Is it safe to see grandparents over the holidays? How can you help a friend with anxiety when youre also struggling ? Everyone deserves accurate information about COVID-19. Support journalism without a paywall and keep it free for everyone by becoming a HuffPost member today. 
