The UK would be making a "terrible mistake" to relax Covid measures just months before vaccines are expected to take effect, a leading scientist said.Prof Peter Openshaw, a government adviser, said the nation should not "take the brakes off" at this stage "when the end is in sight".He said infection rates, numbers in hospital and deaths were all too high.But he said recent trial results showed "for sure that this is a virus we can defeat with vaccination".Prof Openshaw, a member of the government's Scientific Advisory Group on Emergencies (Sage) who works at Imperial College London, told the BBC's Andrew Marr Show: "We scientists are very concerned indeed about relaxation of precautions at this stage."The rates are still too high, there's too many cases coming into hospitals, too many people dying."England's lockdown is ending this week, when it will enter a three-tier system of restrictions. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the tier system would be given an expiry date of 3 February .Covid tiers could have 3 February finish, says PM When will a vaccine be ready? Oxford vaccine: How did they make it so quickly?Elsewhere in the UK, Scotland is using a five-level system of restrictions while Northern Irelandhas begun a two-week circuit-breaker lockdown . In Wales, the hospitality industry is due to be placed under stricter rules - not yet finalised - from 4 December. Prof Openshaw said: "If we take the brakes off at this stage, just when the end is in sight, I think we would be making a huge mistake."He said it was "extremely difficult" to decide on the right measures against the virus but said he thought it was important to "keep this under control and just behave very, very sensibly"."We've all sacrificed so much, everyone has sacrificed enormously in order to get the transmission rate down. With only a few months to go until vaccines start to have an effect I think it would just be a terrible mistake," the professor said.He welcomed the initial data published showing several vaccines had high levels of effectiveness at preventing infections."Several trials are reporting very good efficacy and that I think means for sure that is a virus we can defeat with vaccination," he said.Prof Openshaw said more data was needed to explain why the Oxford vaccine showed different levels of effectiveness in one part of the trial, in which volunteers were mistakenly given a half-dose followed by a full dose later.The lower initial dose resulted in a 90% effectiveness rate among a smaller sample of volunteers aged under 55, while the intended regime of two full doses was 62% effective.But he said: "I would personally be happy to have any vaccine that's been through the regulatory scrutiny that these trials are currently undergoing. "If my GP rings me and says I've got an approved vaccine, I really don't care which one it is."THREE TIERS: How will the system work? VACCINE: How close are we to finding one? LOCKDOWN LOOK-UP: The rules in your area TEST AND TRACE: How does it work?The UK government has purchased another two million doses of a vaccine from US biotech firm Moderna, bringing its total to seven million - enough for abut 3.5 million people.That vaccine was shown to be 95% effective.It has also pre-ordered 40 million doses of a vaccine from Pfizer and BioNTech, with 10 million expected by the end of the year.Initial data suggests it is 95% effective, with Pfizer saying it found similar results in the vulnerable over-65 population.AstraZeneca, which is producing the Oxford vaccine, is said to have four million doses ready for the UK by the end of the year, with 40 million expected by March. The government has 100 million doses of the Oxford vaccine ordered in total.Prof Openshaw said he would be "surprised" if reports that the Pfizer vaccine could be approved and in use next week turned out to be true, but he said there could be an announcement in the next fortnight.The process "mustn't be rushed", he said.BAD PEOPLE: Dr Julia Shaw and comedian Sofie Hagen dissect the criminal cases that shock, intrigue and scare us the most RADIO 1'S DANCE ANTHEMS: An hour of non-stop classic dance tunes to soundtrack your weekend
Santa's grottos will be allowed in all tiers if they're in venues that are permitted to be open, under new Christmas advice.Door-to-door carol singing will also be permitted, it has been confirmed in the government guidance.But if you live in tier three in England, you cannot attend a school nativity play - instead, you will have to live stream it or watch a recording. Rules vary across the different nations of the UK and in different tiers. How to avoid getting Covid at Christmas Who are you allowed to see at Christmas? What you need to know about Christmas travelNativity plays will have to be performed within existing school bubbles, with no mixing across groups. Audiences in tier one and tier two areas will be subject to restrictions as well - like social distancing. Santa's grottos can open if they are in venues that are permitted according to the tier that region is in. But "appropriate Covid-secure measures" like social distancing have to be in place as well. Some have already made arrangements for Father Christmas to speak to children via video-streaming sites, instead of face to face.Carol singing - and carol services - can take place, as long as those attending adhere to the advice on singing safely, which has been put together with the help of Public Health England. Its advice includes singing in well-ventilated areas and keeping distance from each other. Door-to-door carol singing is allowed too, but in groups of a maximum of six. Special rules have to be in place because singing increases the risk of transmitting the virus through small droplets and aerosols in the air. The number of people at a carol event should be limited as well. Those performing professionally or as part of a supervised activity for under 18s are not limited in number, but should still follow the performing arts guidance - including things like wearing masks and managing capacity. For any indoor events, joining in with singing will not be allowed this year. But people can sing if they are outside. Christmas bubbles can be in place from 23 to 27 December, to allow up to three households to spend the festive period together.People, in all tiers, can attend places of worship for services from 2 December, but the rules on who you attend with depends on which tier you live in, with no indoor mixing allowed outside of tier one. However, people in the same Christmas bubble can attend together. Christmas volunteering - which can be a key part of the season for many - is allowed, but it is recommended you do this from home. The rules on shopping depend on whether the shop is indoors or an outdoor market - and on the tier you live in. This will not change for 23 to 27 December when bubbles are in place, and includes Boxing Day sales.
A council has defended plans for a scaled-down Christmas market despite residents saying it is irresponsible as the city heads into tier three.The market in Nottingham city centre will go ahead this year featuring a big wheel, rides and 40 stalls.The city council said the event - which will run from 5 to 24 December - was important for local people and the economy and could be done safely.But some residents said they did not think the event should go ahead.Nottingham City Council said events like the market, which will be open from 10:00 to 21:00 GMT every day, can go ahead under government guidelines.It said it would be half its usual size, would not have an ice rink this year and no stalls would sell alcohol.The council said the rides had been risk assessed and parts of the Old Market Square would be shut if they got too busy.However, Janet Poundall, 62, from Underwood, Nottingham, said she believed the council's decision was "irresponsible"."The council are encouraging people to come into Nottingham and how are they going to get here? On public transport," she said."I don't want to risk staying in tier three for a helter-skelter and a German sausage."Veronica Sutcliffe, from Giltbrook. said she was "incensed" when she heard about the plans."I think it is foolhardy to do this," she said."People will flock there, it will attract crowds and the sacrifices we have all made will be trampled underfoot. Whoever agreed to this needs a sharp lesson in the stark reality of Covid 19."Emma Cowland, 44, from Tollerton, called the Christmas market plans a "joke". She added: "[This can happen] yet our local pub, who have all the Covid guidelines in place, isn't allowed to open to serve outside? This is absolutely absurd."However, other residents backed the idea.Kerry Machin, 36, from Beeston, said she was excited to take her children for a bit of "normality and Christmas cheer".She added: "I'm sure the businesses who rely on markets like this for their income will be so happy."Nottingham South MP Lilian Greenwood also defended the plans for the market, pointing out non-essential shops would be allowed to reopen and an outdoor alternative "might be safer".Nottingham and Nottinghamshire are re-entering tier three from 2 December, meaning no households can mix indoors or in private gardens. Pubs and restaurants will have to stay closed and people should not travel in or out of the area.It comes despite the city's infection rate dropping sharply, from the worst in England at points last month to 185.6 per 100,000 in the week leading up to 23 November, according to government figures.In a statement addressing concerns of residents on social media, the city council said: "We fully understand that giving the go-ahead for an event this year is an emotive issue."We've taken great care in considering Christmas plans for Nottingham this year."We hope the market, along with plans to extend opening times in the city centre to stagger shoppers throughout the day, will provide an environment for people to feel festive, support local businesses and, most importantly, stay safe and have a wonderful Christmas."
Nicola Sturgeon has defended her government's handling of the pandemic as statistics show Scotland's Covid death rate rose higher than England's in recent weeks. Figures show there were 50.5 deaths per million in Scotland in the week to 15 November, compared to 40.6 in England. The first minister said it was too soon to be comparing statistics while "still in the teeth of a pandemic". She told the BBC's Andrew Marr Show the death toll was unacceptable. "I have done everything and will continue to do everything I can to try and control the virus to try and keep it as low as possible, to take the tough decisions that have to be taken in order to achieve that and to try to take people of Scotland along in these difficult steps with me as far as I possibly can," she said. "But nobody underestimates the pain, the grief, the suffering that this global pandemic has brought to us."While the weekly statistics show that Scotland's death rate has been above England's in the last four weeks, Scotland's overall death rate is lower than England and Wales. UK government statistics show that Scotland's Covid death rate is 94 per 100,000, compared to England's at 101.5 and Wales at 102.4. Northern Ireland's death rate is 63.4 per 100,000. Covid in Scotland: Where are the latest cases? The people who have died with Covid-19 How Scotland reached 5,000 deaths from Covid-19The interview came after the SNP leader told her party's virtual conference on Saturday that she had "never been so certain" that Scotland would become independent.On Sunday the conference backed a plan to pressure the UK government into holding another referendum on the issue - and to explore alternative legal routes if it refuses. Douglas Ross, the leader of Scottish Conservatives, said the SNP's record was "clear for all to see" but Ms Sturgeon's priority was "dragging Scotland through another divisive referendum".Scotland's death toll surpassed 5,000 earlier this month and the latest National Records of Scotland figures now show 5,380 people have died with the virus in Scotland. The statistics agency records the number of death certificates that mention the virus. In England, using the same measure, more than 57,000 people have died with the virus. Challenged on the death rate in Scotland, Ms Sturgeon said that, over the course of the whole pandemic, it has been "quite significantly lower" than England and Wales, though it was higher than that of Northern Ireland. "But across the whole of the UK, across much of Europe, far more people have died from this virus than any of us feel comfortable with," she added. The SNP leader was also asked about care home deaths after a University of Stirling report found that 47% of Scotland's Covid deaths in the first wave were in care homes, compared to 30% in England. "If you look at excess deaths overall in care homes across the UK, excess deaths in Scotland have actually been lower than in England but a higher proportion of these excess deaths have been attributed to Covid," she said. "So in England more of the excess deaths have been attributed to other things, and certainly not to Covid. That simplistic view that the care home death toll is worse in Scotland perhaps doesn't bear that scrutiny. "The death toll is unacceptable in Scotland, England, Wales, Northern Ireland, and across much of Europe."The Scottish government has introduced five levels of restrictions in a bid to suppress the spread of the virus during the second wave. People in 11 local authorities are currently living under the strictest limits of level four, with restrictions on travel, hospitality and non-essential shopping. Later a Scottish government spokesman said weekly statistics did not accurately portray trends across the whole pandemic and "can be misleading if looked at in isolation". "Deaths from Covid-19 in Scotland have been significantly lower over the course of the pandemic than England and Wales, with over 7% few deaths per 100,000 than England."Reacting to the interview, the Scottish Conservatives' Douglas Ross said the SNP's record was "clear to see". "Scandalous number of care home deaths, education tumbling down the international league tables and withholding vital advice from the Salmond inquiry. Nicola Sturgeon's priority? Dragging Scotland through another divisive referendum," he said on Twitter. Meanwhile Willie Rennie, leader of the Scottish Liberal Democrat, said Ms Sturgeon was "good at presentation but has repeatedly fallen short on delivery."He said she "talks a good game" but she "did not use the summer well to to prepare for the second wave of the virus in the autumn".Labour MP Ian Murray said Ms Sturgeon should be held to account for her "failings in office". "Amid a child poverty crisis, care homes scandal and utter contempt for Holyrood, the first minister's record is one of broken promises to the people of Scotland," he added."Her only priority is to divide Scotland at a time when we need to bring people together for a period of healing and recovery."LEVELS: What are the restrictions in your area? NUMBERS: Five key figures to watch out for LOCKDOWN: Six months that changed our lives CASES: Where are the latest cases in Scotland? WHO? The people who have died with Covid-19
Police have issued 45 Covid-19 notices and 10 community resolution notices (CRNs) after three house parties overnight in Belfast.Officers responded to reports of two "loud parties" around midnight on Sunday at University Avenue and Sandymount Street in south Belfast.They also found "large numbers" of people at a party at Castle Street in the city centre on Saturday evening. PSNI Ch Insp Sayers said officers took "appropriate action".He added that "the current health restrictions are not a game". "Across Northern Ireland, people are making sacrifices, not visiting family members or friends and businesses have temporarily closed."People congregating or travelling to parties really need to consider their actions for their own health and that of the wider community."
Teachers have warned of a "collapse" in secondary school attendance after the second wave of the pandemic spread across the UK during autumn.Relatively few pupils have tested positive, but hundreds of thousands have had to learn from home after being required to self-isolate.What impact is that having on schools, parents and pupils themselves, as many prepare for exams?Even before mid-October, when Northern Ireland's "huge wave" of cases came to Lisneal College in Londonderry, principal Michael Allen says about five of the GCSE year group of 135 pupils had not returned because of mental health and anxiety issues.He says the impact of self-isolation was to reduce overall attendance to below 85%. At that level, for an individual student, the school would normally refer families to education welfare services, Mr Allen says.Collapse in secondary school attendance warning Close schools early for Christmas, says union What's happening with next year's exams?The first case meant 60 pupils in year 12 - Northern Ireland's GCSE exam year - had to go into self-isolation, just weeks before exams started in November."We have just had 20 Year 12s return from two weeks of self-isolation, and at 9.30am many of those young people had to walk into an exam hall and sit a single-award GCSE chemistry exam," Mr Allen said.There is "total and utter disregard" for the disadvantage pupils like this face in the exam system, he says, with pupils with special education needs being especially badly affected.Remote teaching is made harder because teachers cannot work simultaneously with pupils in the classroom and those working at home. "That's not living in the real world," Mr Allen said.The work of contact tracing falls to school leaders themselves, meaning they have to respond to sudden alerts of positive cases at any time.Mr Allen said pupils give him or his vice-principal a "look of dread" when they walk into the classroom, because they know it means someone will end up missing school. Some have begged them to review the contact tracing process."Two weeks ago we had a girl in tears asking us to go back and measure the two metres. No one seems to be taking any notice of what these young people are going through.""It's been a bit of a nightmare", said Emily Proffitt of the asymptomatic spread that forced her to temporarily close Cooper Perry Primary School in Staffordshire on the advice of public health officials.First, a staff member tested positive over half-term, forcing a few others to self-isolate. Then a few days later another member of the team tested positive.But there was no traceable connection to other positive cases, so public health authorities said all the staff at the small village school - which has open-plan teaching spaces - needed to be tested.That eventually uncovered another three asymptomatic cases. By that point so many staff had to self-isolate that the school was forced to close for a week.They reopened this week, only for a pupil to test positive, meaning two year groups and five members of staff were sent home."For the parents, I feel so sorry for them," Ms Proffitt said. With several pupils having had four weeks out of school since half-term, some of their parents will have had to take time off work. For some of them, they will have been unpaid.She said she was worried it looked like the school had not prepared for the risk, when in reality "we've got hands that are red-raw from sanitising". Pupils are anxious, with some asking to wear masks even when they are not required. Staff are working in isolation from each other and are stressed, as many prepare two sets of lessons for in-person and remote teaching, Ms Proffitt said."We're looking at probably a decade of attachment and trauma issues that are going to be related back to Covid." "However much we paint our smiles on in the classroom, and we're good at that, children read us very well and they know things aren't quite right."Merseyside has been one of the areas worst-hit in the UK's second wave of the pandemic. And at The Prescot School in Knowsley that has meant a collective 700 days in the classroom lost for the year 11 students preparing for exams in the summer.One student, Ben, told the BBC: "Year 11 is such a crucial year, you've got exams and mock exams and that's the main thing that's going to set you for life."As someone who's self-isolated already, I think it's really stressful to even think about the exams that we've got to do in a few months' time when we've missed out a large chunk of school."He says the year group is still learning content that they had missed when schools were closed in the first lockdown."In any other time period we would be revising and going over past things now.""I don't really think it's fair," he said, pointing out that some areas have seen much more disruption to education in this wave of the virus, while everyone will face the same exam conditions."We've obviously all gone through Covid and it's been strange for everyone. But there are other places it hasn't affected as much as here," he says.Felicity Sandford said her daughter Cerys was the only one in her form to be sent home after contact with another child in her Spanish class who had tested positive."She was a bit traumatised to be pulled out of her class and not know what was going on, and she was the only one," Felicity said. Students were reassured they had not done anything wrong but had to wait a while before they learned why they were being taken out of class. "I had to go and meet her and she was pretty upset."Felicity said she was "absolutely gutted" herself as her work as a marketing consultant for children's activity providers in west London was hitting a busy time.But she says it was a "pleasant surprise" how organised the remote learning has been, with Cerys using Microsoft Teams to keep in touch, taking online lessons from Oak National Academy and logging her homework and progress with photographs."In lockdown, at primary school there wasn't any structure. With this one I haven't had to get very involved," Felicity says.The strict remote learning regime surprised Cerys too, who had hoped "she might just get to chill out in her pyjamas" only to find that her schedule of work had been emailed the night before.But with both parents working from home, finding space in the house has been one of the main challenges. "I've actually been working from her bedroom today while she's been at the dining table," says Felicity.Tasos Konidaris says his daughter Mathilde took it "quite heavily" when she was told by her school she needed to self-isolate because of contact with a student who tested positive.A year 11 student, Mathilde already felt unprepared because of missed classes during the pandemic's first wave, Tasos says. "She thinks, how am I going to deal with this? Is it fair?"He says the school adapted well to online classes with students able to watch most lessons remotely. But eventually the whole year had to isolate as the case load became too great.And when his daughter tested positive, the family had to self-isolate too.With sons Hector, 13, and Alexander, 10, also learning from home, it put the parents under extra strain. "You're having to suddenly be a parent, a teacher and do your work. It's quite wearing," he said.But Tasos said it gave them a renewed appreciation of what teachers do. "When you have your kids looking you in the eye and telling you with a sad face, I want to go back to school - which is funny to hear from a teenager - it's a tell-tale sign about how important it is."
A government adviser "wouldn't be too surprised" if an announcement about the availability of a Covid-19 vaccine came in the next fortnight, when asked if a vaccine could be available next week. Prof Peter Openshaw is a member of the government's New and Emerging Respiratory Virus Threats Advisory Group and was speaking to the BBC's Andrew Marr. The immunologist also said he would "personally be happy" to have any vaccine that has been through regulatory scrutiny.
There have been 93,689 confirmed cases of Covid-19 in Scotland and 3,722 people have died following a positive test for the virus, according to Scottish government figures.This page is updated regularly and analyses the key figures for the coronavirus outbreak in Scotland.Figures updated at 14:00 on 29 November 2020.Over the past seven days there have been 6,328 cases detected following a test, with 746 confirmed on Saturday.This next chart shows the number of daily confirmed cases after an NHS Scotland or UK government test since 1 August, along with a seven-day average.The actual number of people infected since February will be far higher than the overall confirmed cases figure, as most people who had Covid-19 during the peak of the outbreak were not tested.Scotland's "second wave" has seen a much bigger surge in the number of cases because many more people are being tested.The weekly number of positive tests per 100,000 people in each of Scotland's 32 local authorities is now a key indicator of which Covid level a council area will be placed in.The Scottish government works to a system of thresholds, while also considering other indicators such as hospital admissions when reviewing the levels.The number of positive cases in each local authority is published daily by Public Health Scotland . The most recent data often underestimates the number of positive tests as there are sometimes delays before results are recorded, so this chart uses figures from four days ago.It is also possible to see rates for the past seven days by NHS health board.Over the course of the outbreak, the highest number of cumulative cases has been in NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde, reflecting the fact it is the most populous part of Scotland.The first coronavirus death in Scotland was reported by NHS Lothian on 13 March and the number of daily deaths peaked on 15 April when 84 were reported. Over the summer, Scotland went for a long period when there were no deaths following a positive test for Covid-19, but the rate of new deaths rose again in the autumn.There are three ways to measure deaths from Covid-19.The Scottish government's daily announcement counts deaths within 28 days of a positive test for Covid-19, whereas the National Records of Scotland (NRS) counts all death certificates that mention Covid-19, even if the person has not been tested for the virus.The coronavirus death toll in ScotlandThe NRS also publishes monthly data on excess deaths in 2020, compared with a five-year average.At its peak, the coronavirus outbreak created a huge load on Scotland's hospitals, with 1,520 Covid patients being treated across the country on 20 April.The number of people in hospital is currently far lower than that, but it rose steadily in October before appearing to stabilise in November. This chart shows the numbers of patients in Scottish hospitals since 11 September.It is hard to compare the numbers in hospital now with figures over the summer as the Scottish government has recently changed the way it counts them.From 11 September, only patients who test positive during their current stay in hospital, or in the two weeks before their admission, are included in the numbers.They will also no longer be classified as Covid patients after 28 days in hospital or 28 days after their positive test, whichever is later.This change led to a big drop in the number of people classified as Covid patients.The number of hospital patients being treated in intensive care is also down from a peak of 208 in early April, but rose again during October. The World Health Organisation (WHO) says the percentage of positive test results is a key measure when assessing the status of a Covid-19 outbreak within a country .The organisation has stated that if less than 5% of samples from a comprehensive testing system return a positive result over two weeks then it is one indication an epidemic is under control.Other indications include a continuous decline in hospital admissions and a decline in the number of new deaths over at least three weeks.This chart shows the "positivity rate" in Scotland since 18 August.The Scottish government changed the way it measures this rate on 19 October .Previously, the government calculated it by dividing the number of positive cases with the number of newly-tested individuals each day.However, it now calculates the rate using the number of positive tests reported each day.The Scottish government said it changed the method to bring it into line with the WHO's criteria, and because the previous measure was "likely to over-estimate the positivity rate" as more people were repeatedly tested.Data on the number of positive tests each day (rather than positive cases) is only available from 18 August.The R number, or reproduction number, is a way of rating a disease's ability to spread. It is the average number of people that one infected person will pass the virus on to.If the reproduction number is higher than one, then the number of cases increases exponentially.The Scottish government has been monitoring the estimated R number in Scotland since the start of the outbreak . RULES: What are the restrictions in Scotland? NUMBERS: Five key figures to watch out for LOCKDOWN: Six months that changed our livesSource for all graphs and figures: Scottish government's coronavirus in Scotland and its daily briefing.
A further 16 people have died with coronavirus in Wales, taking the total to 2,539, according to the latest figures. Public Health Wales data also showed 1,004 more people had tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total to 79,540.Torfaen has now overtaken Blaenau Gwent for the area with the highest case rate in Wales over the last seven days.It has seen 426 cases in the last week.There has now been a total of 1,485,249 tests carried out in Wales since the start of the pandemic.There were 14,400 tests carried out on Saturday.The local authority area with the highest number of new cases reported in the past 24 hours was Neath Port Talbot with 142, followed by Swansea with 131.Torfaen now has the highest case rate in Wales, jumping to 453.4 per 100,000 in the last week and also has a positivity rate of 22.4% - also the highest in Wales.The World Health Organization (WHO) has recommended the positivity proportion of tests should be no more than 5% before areas come out of restrictions. Torfaen's initial rise was attributed to 50 cases at a local care home in the last fortnight, while the proportion of care home cases has trebled in the last month.Pontypool currently has the highest case rate in Wales, broken down at a localised level, at 857.7 cases per 100,000 in the last week - 78 actual cases. Abersychan and Trevethin are also in the highest 10.Case rates continued to rise in 14 out of 22 council areas of Wales.Positivity rates - the proportion of positive test results - also rose in 13 areas.Those areas with the lowest number of new cases were Denbighshire with 10, followed by Conwy and Gwynedd which both registered 11 new cases. Of the new deaths, three were reported by Aneurin Bevan health board, two by Betsi Cadwaladr, three by Cardiff and Vale, five by Cwm Taf Morgannwg, one by Hywel Dda and two by Swansea Bay health board. The areas with the highest number of cases per 100,000 population for the past seven days are Torfaen with 453.4, followed by Blaenau Gwent with 433.7 and Newport with 336.2.The areas with the lowest case rates are Conwy with 19.6, Gwynedd with 28.1 and Denbighshire with 72.1. Covid: What do you wonder about coronavirus in Wales? How will I get a Covid vaccine? Covid-19 in Wales: What do the stats tell us?Acute patients from Powys are usually treated across the border at hospitals in England, so deaths of Powys residents usually only appear in registrations reported later by the Office for National Statistics (ONS).Those ONS figures - which are higher - also count both confirmed and suspected cases of Covid, as well as deaths in all settings, including care homes, hospices and people's own homes. The most recent weekly figures are the highest since May.PHW reports new deaths daily, but these are usually from previous days.Find out how the pandemic has affected your area and how it compares with the national average:If you can't see the look-up click here.The postcode search has been updated to replace data for health boards in Scotland with data for local councils. In England, data for county councils has been replaced with data for district councils. Figures for boroughs and unitary authorities remain unchanged. A SIMPLE GUIDE: What are the symptoms? IN-DEPTH: Coronavirus pandemic
A mass Covid-19 vaccination programme will need the full support of the executive in order to be delivered, the Ulster Unionist Party leader has said.Steve Aiken urged the first and deputy first ministers to present a united front on the importance of the vaccine.Mr Aiken said Northern Ireland was moving to "a critical stage" of the pandemic.On Sunday, the Department of Health reported three more coronavirus-related deaths and 351 new cases in NI.It brings the department's overall death toll, which is based on deaths from any cause within 28 days of a positive test, to 986.GPs in NI are preparing for a mass vaccination programme to begin next month.Speaking on BBC One's Sunday Politics Mr Aiken said: "All of the executive should be working together and getting the same message out."Now is not the time for backbiting but what we must be doing is supporting [Robin Swann] because we must support our health service to get through this stage."Mr Aiken said he would "love" the first and deputy first ministers to "keep coherent with the message they have come out with in the past week", saying "they must do that because we're moving to a critical stage" of the pandemic.Speaking about the vaccines, Mr Aiken said: "I really do hope that the various vaccines, their efficacy will be proved and they will be given the approval for their rollout to start."He called on Stormont to focus on helping the economy to recover and dealing with the pandemic in the new year.Plan for Covid vaccinations to begin in December Covid vaccines: Who decides if they are safe? Who will get the vaccine first and when can you have it?"We need to be doing this to be able to make sure we can come out the other side and make sure our health service isn't overwhelmed," he said.The UUP leader added that the "most important thing" for the people of Northern Ireland to doing was to support the health minister.On Saturday, the Department of Health reported nine more coronavirus-related deaths and 315 new cases of the virus in Northern Ireland.It brings the department's overall death toll, which is based on deaths from any cause within 28 days of a positive test - to 983.Meanwhile, it emerged that GPs in Northern Ireland are planning to deliver Covid-19 vaccines for people aged over 80 who do not live in care homes from 4 January. Doctors have been advised to "assume" the GP vaccination programme will begin on that date. Approval is anticipated for two vaccines in the coming weeks.The JCVI (Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation) group will decide on who should be first in line to receive it, but it has been widely reported that care home residents and health and social care workers will be the first priority groups.GPs will be central to the programme's roll-out, with Northern Ireland relying on them along with health trusts to "urgently" begin administering the doses once the drugs are licensed, according to a letter from the Health and Social Care Board sent to GP practices.The initiative is a "major undertaking" by GP practices to "help bring the pandemic under control" according to the head of general medical services at the HSCB, Dr Margaret O'Brien."Whilst clarity is still required on a number of issues, including the date of approval and delivery of the vaccine, the exact storage requirements and priority groups, the situation is developing at pace and there is a need to plan for the earliest possible commencement of the vaccination programme," said Dr O'Brien."We do however have enough information to be able to start to plan for a Covid-19 vaccination programme.""This is the light at the end of the tunnel that so many of us have been waiting for," said Dr Alan Stout, chair of the GP committee at the British Medical Association. Dr Stout said the intention is "to get started this side of Christmas" but acknowledged the rollout will be "massively challenging".Health and social care frontline workers are expected to be vaccinated in the first phase, followed by residents and staff of care homes and the clinically vulnerable.Without regulatory approval, plans for vaccine delivery are at this stage provisional.The vaccination programme will be on a phased basis, and will run well into 2021, according to the Department of Health.Plans include a public information campaign to encourage take up among the public.
Nicola Sturgeon has defended her government's handling of the pandemic as statistics show Scotland's Covid death rate is higher than England. Official figures show there were 50.5 deaths per million in Scotland in the week up to 15 November, compared to 40.6 in England. The first minister said it was too soon to be comparing statistics while "still in the teeth of pandemic". She told the BBC's Andrew Marr Show the death toll was unacceptable.
Bottles were thrown at police when they broke up an illegal rave with a 150-strong crowd at a disused warehouse.Officers forced their way into the event in Bordesley Street, Digbeth, Birmingham on Saturday night.They were "pelted with bottles," West Midlands Police said, and one officer was "kicked out" at but was unhurt.A man was arrested on suspicion of assault and more than 100 penalty notices of 200 were issued for breaching lockdown.The arrested man was later released under investigation.Police seized Class A drugs, a knuckleduster and DJ equipment when they went to the site after being contacted.Ch Supt Andy Beard said: "This was not only illegal, but extremely dangerous for both those who attended and officers."It's extremely disappointing that some are still not grasping that such events only increase the risk of spreading a deadly virus."The force said it believed it had identified the event's organisers and was looking to pursue further action against them. Birmingham, like most of the West Midlands, will be under tier three restrictions, the highest alert level, when it comes out of England's second lockdown on Wednesday.Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook , Twitter and Instagram . Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
