The surging coronavirus is taking an increasingly dire toll across the U.S. just as a vaccine appears close at hand, with the country now averaging over 1,300 COVID-19 deaths per day the highest level since the calamitous spring in and around New York City.The overall U.S. death toll has reached about 254,000, by far the most in the world. Confirmed infections have eclipsed more than 11.8 million, after the biggest one-day gain on record Thursday almost 188,000. And the number of people in the hospital with COVID-19 hit another all-time high at more than 80,000.With health experts deeply afraid Thanksgiving travel and holiday gatherings next week will fuel the spread of the virus, many states and cities are imposing near-lockdowns or other restrictions. California ordered a 10 p.m.-to 5-a.m. curfew starting Saturday, covering 94% of the states 40 million residents.The Texas border county of El Paso, where more than 300 people have died from COVID-19 since October, is advertising jobs for morgue workers capable of lifting bodies weighing 175 pounds (79 kilograms) or more. Officials are offering more than $27 an hour for work described as not only physically arduous but emotionally taxing as well.The county had already begun paying jail inmates $2 an hour to help move corpses and has ordered at least 10 refrigerated trucks as morgues run out of room.COVID-19 deaths in the U.S. are at their highest level since late May, when the Northeast was emerging from the first wave of the crisis. They peaked at about 2,200 a day in late April, when New York City was the epicenter and bodies were being loaded onto refrigerated trucks by forklift.Among the newly infected was President Donald Trumps eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., who a spokesman said Friday has no symptoms and has been quarantining since learning of his diagnosis earlier this week.Amid the bleak new statistics, Pfizer said Friday it is asking U.S. regulators to allow emergency use of its COVID-19 vaccine, setting in motion a process that could make the first, limited shots available as early as next month, with health care workers and other high-risk groups likely to get priority.But it could take months before the vaccine becomes widely available. Pfizer has said the vaccine appears 95% effective at preventing the disease.In Texas, Republican Gov. Greg Abbott has ruled out another shutdown and singled out El Paso county leaders for not enforcing restrictions already in place. The states attorney general, Ken Paxton, likened the countys chief administrator to a tyrant after Paxton won an appeals court ruling blocking local leaders from shutting down gyms and other nonessential businesses.Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine, also a Republican, failed to persuade leaders of the GOP-controlled legislature to reject a bill that would limit his administrations power to deal with the crisis.At issue is a Senate bill that would ban the state health department from issuing mandatory quarantine orders enforced against people who are not sick or exposed to disease such as the order announced by the governor Tuesday setting a 10 p.m. curfew.DeWine said he will veto the bill when it reaches his desk. Republicans in both the House and Senate have enough votes to override the veto if they choose.This bill is a disaster, DeWine said Thursday. This is not a bill that can become law.In California, the curfew affects 41 of the states 58 counties. Its impact will depend heavily on voluntary compliance. Some county sheriffs said they wont enforce it the rules for people not on essential errands to stay home after 10 p.m.The curfew is less strict than the near-total ban on nonessential business and travel that Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom imposed in March, which he credited with flattening the rate of COVID-19 cases.Rocco Temasamani, who was selling jewelry Friday at San Diegos Ocean Beach, said the curfew will do little to curb the coronavirus and will instead anger people who consider it government overreach.He thinks the order will rankle supporters of President Donald Trump who are already agitated by the presidents claims of election fraud and back his hands-off approach to regulating behavior during the pandemic.Its really, really throwing gasoline on a fire, said Temasamani, who was skeptical that police will enforce the curfew.Michael Maring, an auto mechanic from El Centro, California, who was visiting San Diego, said he will obey the curfew, despite his fondness for 2 a.m. bike rides, because he doesnt want trouble with police. Like Temasamani, he thinks authorities will be reluctant to enforce the new measure.In Kansas, new cases have risen to an average of over 2,700 per day, nearly four times higher than a month ago.Our hospitals are overwhelmed with coronavirus patients. Health care workers are burned out, Democratic Gov. Laura Kelly said Friday.In rural western Kansas, the number of people seeking testing at a Kearny County clinic doubled over the past week to about 80 per day, said Dr. Lane Olson, a family practice doctor.He said nurses had to make multiple calls this week before the University of Kansas Hospital, about 360 miles (580 kilometers) away in Kansas City, Kansas, agreed to take one of his coronavirus patients whose oxygen levels were falling. Then several more calls were needed to find an air transport company that could fly her there.In the state capital, Topeka, the emergency department at Stormont Vail Hospital has taken over a back hallway and a waiting room, with some patients waiting hours to be moved to a regular room. The crunch has area officials considering opening a field hospital.In Arizona, four Democratic mayors urged Republican Gov. Doug Ducey to impose a statewide requirement for people to wear masks in public. The move came as health officials reported more than 4,000 additional COVID-19 cases for the second consecutive day.Duceys chief of staff, Daniel Scarpinato, pushed back on the request, saying the mayors are doing little to enforce their own mask ordinances or ensure that existing safety measures put in place by the governor are being enforced. Everyone deserves accurate information about COVID-19. Support journalism without a paywall and keep it free for everyone by becoming a HuffPost member today. A HuffPost Guide To Coronavirus Heres the latest science on COVID antibodies. How does the coronavirus spread differently than the flu? What does the new CDC definition of a COVID-19 close contact mean for you? Is it safe to see grandparents for the holidays? Therapists predict how this year will shape our mental health. 
People think Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin s slip of the tongue on Friday could be the most honest thing ever said by someone in President Donald Trump s administration.During a telephone interview for CNBCs Squawk Box, Mnuchin said, Were working on mass distribution of the virus. He presumably meant to say the Trump White House was working on the mass distribution of a vaccine to combat the spread of COVID-19 .Check out the clip here:But folks on Twitter took it as a Freudian slip, seeing how Trumps mishandling of the pandemic has allowed the coronavirus to ravage the country, killing more than 250,000 Americans to date and infecting nearly 12 million.Trump intentionally misled citizens for months by downplaying the threat of the virus in public, while in private acknowledging its dangers.The outgoing president also ignored his own governments advice on how to mitigate its spread and hosted multiple crowded campaign rallies attended by maskless supporters. Everyone deserves accurate information about COVID-19. Support journalism without a paywall and keep it free for everyone by becoming a HuffPost member today. A HuffPost Guide To Coronavirus Heres the latest science on COVID antibodies. How does the coronavirus spread differently than the flu? What does the new CDC definition of a COVID-19 close contact mean for you? Is it safe to see grandparents for the holidays? Therapists predict how this year will shape our mental health. 
When Santa Claus takes flight on Christmas Eve, he wont carry COVID-19 or pass it along to children around the world.Dr. Anthony Fauci told USA Today this week that those eager to maintain some semblance of their holiday traditions this year can rest easy and expect Santa to deliver their gifts safely as scheduled.Santa is exempt from this because Santa, of all the good qualities, has a lot of good innate immunity, Fauci,the nations top infectious disease expert and a member of the White House coronavirus task force, said in an interview published Friday.The reassuring announcement came just days before the U.S. was set to observe a Thanksgiving like no other .The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Thursday urged Americans to avoid traveling and not to spend the holiday with family members or friends from outside their household to curb the spread of COVID-19.Meanwhile, Santas appearance at the Macys Thanksgiving parade traditionally seen as the kickoff to the Christmas season will look considerably different. For the first time in its 96-year history, the parade wont travel its usual two-mile route and instead will take place as a mostly stationary,made-for-TV event with an estimated 75% reduction in participants.Exactly what any of this entails for Christmas next month remains to be seen.But in his interview Friday, Fauci said anyone awaiting a visit from St. Nicholas shouldnt worry.Santa is not going to be spreading any infections to anybody, he said .Fauci isnt the only public figure to proclaim Santa safe from the coronavirus.Last week, Italys prime minister, Giuseppe Conte , announced that Santa hadinternational self-certification to depart from his North Pole workshop in spite of international COVID-19 restrictions.He can travel everywhere and distribute gifts to all children around the world. Without any limitation, Conte wrote in Italian and English on Facebook in response to a message from a 5-year-old Italian boy named Tommaso.He confirmed to me that he always uses a mask and maintains a correct distance to protect himself and everyone he meets. Everyone deserves accurate information about COVID-19. Support journalism without a paywall and keep it free for everyone by becoming a HuffPost member today. A HuffPost Guide To Coronavirus Heres the latest science on COVID antibodies. How does the coronavirus spread differently than the flu? What does the new CDC definition of a COVID-19 close contact mean for you? Is it safe to see grandparents for the holidays? Therapists predict how this year will shape our mental health.  Everyone deserves accurate information about COVID-19. Support journalism without a paywall and keep it free for everyone by becoming a HuffPost member today. A HuffPost Guide To Coronavirus Heres the latest science on COVID antibodies. How does the coronavirus spread differently than the flu? What does the new CDC definition of a COVID-19 close contact mean for you? Is it safe to see grandparents for the holidays? Therapists predict how this year will shape our mental health. 
Heres a guessing game that perfectly suits the sad state of affairs in the U.S. Senate : How long until the number of Republicans who accept Joe Biden as the president-elect surpasses the number of them who have tested positive for the coronavirus?At the moment, the virus is winning.Rick Scott of Florida announced Friday that he has tested positive for COVID-19, making him the seventh GOP senator infected by the deadly disease. The others are Chuck Grassley (Iowa), Mike Lee (Utah), Bill Cassidy (La.), Rand Paul (Ky.), Thom Tillis (N.C.) and Ron Johnson (Wis.). Paul was the first to test positive, back in March; Grassley and Scott revealed their infections this week.Meanwhile, its been nearly two weeks since Biden won enough states to become the president-elect but the vast majority of GOP senators are refusing to publicly acknowledge it.As of Friday, HuffPost counts just five Senate Republicans who have said Biden won or referred to him as the president-elect: Mitt Romney (Utah), Lisa Murkowski (Alaska), Susan Collins (Maine), Ben Sasse (Neb.) and Marco Rubio (Fla.).That leaves the remaining 48 GOP senators complicit in President Donald Trump s efforts to undermine peoples faith in democratic institutions to try to make it look like he won.Some of these senators are echoing his lies about voter fraud. Some are backing his baseless lawsuits and efforts to review ballots despite no evidence of widespread fraud or vote margins so thin that a recount would be warranted. None of them publicly objected as Trump summoned two Michigan Republican leaders to the White House on Friday in plain view for a meeting aimed at subverting the democratic process that handed the state to Biden in the election.Some are trying to have it both ways: appease Trumps ego but also acknowledge how reckless the current situation is. It doesnt work, though.Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) said in a Friday statement that the Trump administration should help Bidens team transition into power but only if Biden wins the election, which he already has, by a lot .Alexanders statement only vaguely touches on the outrageous situation of Trumps top appointee at the General Services Administration refusing to sign off on paperwork that triggers a transfer of power, which is preventing Bidens team from getting up to speed on all sorts of matters, most obviously responding to the pandemic that is again spiking throughout the nation.If there is any chance whatsoever that Joe Biden will be the next president, and it looks like he has a very good chance, the Trump administration should provide the Biden team with all transition materials, resources, and meetings necessary to ensure a smooth transition so that both sides are ready on day one, Alexander said. That especially should be true, for example, on vaccine distribution.He sounds reasonable enough in his plea for a peaceful transfer of power, saying it is the most enduring symbol of our democracy. But like so many of his GOP colleagues , he cant seem to acknowledge that Biden won the election and leaves the door open just wide enough to suggest the election results may be invalid, with zero evidence.Recounting votes and resolving disputes after a close election is not unprecedented and should reassure Americans that election results are valid, Alexander said.Trumps campaign has filed so many election-related lawsuits in state and federal courts that its hard to keep up. But its easy to keep track of how many cases Trump has lost: nearly all of them .
