 The financially-challenged firm racked up losses of 530.2bn won ($450m; 270m) in the three months which ended in June.  That is a 27% larger loss than suffered during the same three months a year earlier, dashing hopes that the semiconductor industry is on the road to recovery.  Hynix blamed the Iraq war and the Sars outbreak in China for a slump in demand for personal computers, forcing it to dramatically cut chip prices.  Despite the widening loss, Hynix is once again predicting that it is over the worst and said its cost structure is improving.  However, its return to financial health is likely to be hindered by Tuesday's announcement that the EU and US will slap additional import tariffs on its memory chips.  Hynix, meanwhile, has vowed to protect itself by widening its portfolio of chips away from its core memory product that are used in PCs.
 Beijing was the last area in the world still on the WHO travel alert list. The news comes a day after Hong Kong was given the all-clear. "This is very good news and shows the great progress the world has made against Sars," said Dr Gro Harlem Brundtland, Director General of the WHO.  Beijing had been the city worst affected by Sars in the world.  This is a milestone in the fight against Sars in China and around the world Dr Shigeru Omi WHO regional director More than 800 people around the world have died from the respiratory disease, nearly half of them in China.  The last case of Sars in Beijing was isolated on 29 May and no new cases have recently been exported from the city, the WHO said.  Similarly, Hong Kong was declared free of Sars on Monday, 20 days after the last confirmed case of the disease in the territory.  "The WHO has concluded that the chain of person-to-person transmission, human-to-human transmission has been broken [in Beijing]," said Dr Shigeru Omi, WHO regional director for the Western Pacific.  SARS WORLDWIDE Known death tolls: World: 812 Mainland China: 348 Hong Kong: 298 Taiwan: 84 Singapore: 32 Canada: 38 Source: WHO/local authorities Global update  "This is a milestone in the fight against Sars in China and around the world," he said.  Over the course of the outbreak, 2521 cases of Sars were reported in Beijing - 191 people in the city died.  At the height of the disease, more than 100 cases were being reported every day.  The WHO described the successful containment of Sars as a "tribute to the effectiveness of centuries-old control measures". The WHO lifted travel warnings against Toronto, in Canada and Taiwan earlier this month.  However, the organisation says there is still a risk of spreading the infection in those two areas.
 In a statement, the WHO said no new Sars infections had been reported in China for more than three weeks.  The first outbreak of the pneumonia-like illness killed nearly 800 people worldwide, after it first appeared in China 18 months ago.  Sars emerged again last month when two researchers at Beijing's Institute of Virology contracted the disease.  The WHO said it still did not know exactly how the latest outbreak began.  But it said in a statement on Wednesday that "the chain of human-to-human transmission appears to have been broken."  All the nine cases in the latest outbreak can be traced back to the same Beijing laboratory, health officials have said.  Sars was first reported in the southern province of Guangdong in late 2002.  That outbreak killed 774 people worldwide and infected more than 8,000 others before abating in July 2003.
 Deputy chief medical officer Dr Andrew Fraser said planning was under way to deal with any potential cases of the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars) virus in Scotland.  He said an "immense" effort was being made to keep health workers informed about symptoms and what to do if they come across a case.  But nurses leaders said an outbreak in Scotland could put the health system under strain. Right approach  James Kennedy of the Royal College of Nursing said nurses were very anxious about Sars.  But he believes the authorities are on the whole taking the right approach in prevention.  However, he is worried that if there was an outbreak, there would be an increased workload on staff.  About 6,000 cases of the pneumonia-like virus have been reported worldwide.  The death toll in China, Hong Kong, Canada and Singapore is increasing daily.  No probable cases of Sars have been identified in Scotland but Dr Fraser said he was working on the "likelihood" that the virus would be identified north of the border.  All healthcare workers will need to be aware of the need to take reasonable and sensible infection control measures. Dr Andrew Fraser  He said if cases were found in Scotland the aim would be to treat people near to where they became ill.  "Generally speaking there are facilities which we could adapt in each of the larger hospitals to cope with people who might have Sars," Dr Fraser said.  He said an immense amount of effort was going into keeping staff informed.  "All healthcare workers will need to be aware of the need to take reasonable and sensible infection control measures," Dr Fraser said.  The advice to staff was update via the Scottish Centre for Infection and Environmental Health website daily, he added.
 Deputy Prime Minister Wu Yi called for "the immediate establishment of a national medical emergency mechanism, with emphasis placed on a public health information and an early warning reporting mechanism".  Ms Wu's remarks - published in the state-run media - did not make clear when the measures would be taken.  But her comments follow Friday's unprecedented apology by Li Liming, director of the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), who said there had not been "enough close co-operation with the media".  China has come under fire for failing to report early and openly on the disease that emerged in the Guangdong province last November, before spreading to Hong Kong and around the world in March.  How Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome has spread around the world SARS guide  A team from the World Health Organization (WHO) visiting the province has urged Chinese authorities to re-examine samples taken from victims killed by the virus - Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars).  They want to see whether the illness might involve multiple viruses or bacteria.  WHO officials have told the BBC they hope to make a breakthrough on the virus in "weeks rather than months". Still spreading  More than half of the people killed by Sars across the world are from China. More than 2,000 people have been infected with the virus across the world.  In the United States, President George W Bush has issued an executive order allowing the forced quarantine of patients with Sars if deemed necessary by the health secretary.  SARS: PROBABLE CASES AND DEATHS China 1220 cases (49 deaths) Hong Kong 761 (17) Singapore 100 (5) Vietnam 59 (4) Canada 62 (7) Thailand 7 (2) Source: WHO - 4 April, 1700 GMT  The WHO believes the epidemic Guangdong appears to be under control while an outbreak in Singapore could be almost over. But it is still spreading with Malaysia reporting on Saturday the first suspected death related to the disease.  In Hong Kong, which is next to Guangdong, health officials say the rate of increase in cases has been levelling off - but there were three more deaths on Saturday.  But correspondents say Hong Kong remained concerned about further spread because of the important Ching Ming festival on Saturday, when thousands of residents traditionally go to southern China to visit ancestors' graves.  Transmission fears  Experts have found more evidence that the bug can be spread easily.  Five of the 24 Sars cases in the southern Chinese city of Foshan examined so far by a WHO team were caught despite the patient having no obvious contact with an infected person.  HAVE YOUR SAY I believe that much of the reporting has been alarmist. Nearly 700 people in Hong Kong have been affected, but that is less than 1/100 of 1% of the population. Roy Allen, Hong Kong Send us your comments Scientists now believe that, in some cases at least, the "infectious agent" involved can be spread either through airborne droplets - or perhaps linger on objects such as door handles.  Researchers first believed that only "close contact" - such as being sneezed on by a sufferer - could spread the infection.  If another route of transmission is confirmed, it could yet make it far tougher to halt the outbreaks in China and elsewhere.  The mystery virus has travelled the globe in a matter of weeks, aided in large measure by international air travel.
 16 November 2002: First known case of Sars is discovered in Guangdong province, China.  11 February 2003: The Chinese Ministry of Health reports that there have been 300 cases including five deaths in Guangdong province from an "acute respiratory syndrome".  Fear of infection has transformed normal life in parts of China and Hong Kong 11 March: Hong Kong health officials report an outbreak of an "acute respiratory syndrome" among hospital workers.  15 March: The World Health Organisation (WHO) confirms that Severe Acute Respiratory syndrome (Sars) is a "worldwide health threat" and that possible cases have been identified in Canada, Indonesia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. The WHO issues guidelines warning travellers to South East Asia about the dangers of Sars.  19 March: Sars spreads to the US and Europe with the UK, Spain, Germany and Slovenia reporting cases.  27 March: WHO recommends screening departing travellers from worst affected areas.  29 March: Carlo Urbani, the WHO official who first identified Sars, dies of the disease.  2 April: WHO recommends postponement of all non-essential travel to Hong Kong and Guangdong province of China.  5 April: China apologises for its slow response to the Sars outbreak amid allegations that officials have covered up the true extent of the spread of the disease.  9 April: First Sars case reported in Africa.  14 April: Canadian scientists confirm they have sequenced the genome of the Sars virus.  17 April: India confirms its first Sars case.  23 April: WHO recommends postponement of non-essential travel to Toronto, Canada. All schools in Beijing are shut for two weeks in an attempt to halt the spread of the disease.  26 April: Health ministers from 13 east and south-east Asian countries - meeting in Malaysia - call for all international travellers to be screened for Sars.  27 April: The Beijing authorities order the closure of all entertainment venues in the Chinese capital - including theatres, cinemas and karaoke bars - until the outbreak is brought under control.  28 April: The WHO says Vietnam has contained the virus, after no new cases are reported in the country for 20 days.  5 May: The Chinese authorities quarantine 10,000 people in the eastern city of Nanjing.  11 May: The southern Chinese city of Guangzhou bans spitting in public places to combat Sars.  15 May: China threatens to execute or jail for life anyone who breaks Sars quarantine orders. 22 May: The infection rate reaches its apex in Taiwan, with 65 new cases in one day. 31 May: The WHO declares Singapore Sars-free.  5 June: The outbreak has peaked around the world - including China - the WHO says.  13 June: The WHO withdraws is travel warnings for the Chinese provinces of Hebei, Inner Mongolia, Shanxi and Tianjin - but maintains the warning for Beijing.  17 June: WHO lifts its travel warning for Taiwan.  23 June: China and Hong Kong are removed from the WHO's list of Sars-infected areas.  2 July: Toronto is declared Sars-free by the WHO, after 20 consecutive days without new cases.  5 July: Taiwan is the last country to be removed from the WHO's list of infected areas.  9 September: Singapore announces that a patient has Sars, making him the first person to contract the disease in five months. The WHO has yet to confirm the case.  17 December: Taiwan health officials say a medical researcher at a Taipei military hospital has contracted the virus.  5 January 2004: Chinese health officials confirm a 32-year-old man in southern Guangdong province has Sars, the country's first case in months, and announce plans to slaughter thousands of civet cats to curb the spread of the disease.  16 January 2004: The World Health Organization says it has found evidence suggesting that civets do carry Sars.  17 January 2004: China confirms two new Sars cases in Guangdong province.  26 April 2004: The Chinese health ministry says it is investigating at least four new suspected cases. Officials say all the new cases are connected to a confirmed patient who worked at a Sars research lab.  19 May 2004: The World Health Organization says China has contained the latest outbreak of Sars.   1 July 2004: The director of China's main disease control centre, Li Liming, resigns over the April outbreak, which happened at one of his laboratories.  7 July 2004: Hong Kong Health Secretary Yeoh Eng-kiong resigns after being criticised in a report on the handling of the 2003 Sars crisis. The report accused him of paying too little attention to Sars when it appeared in mainland China, and issuing misleading statements to the Hong Kong public.
The major travel insurers have cancelled cover for contracting the Sars virus on trips to China, Hong Kong and Toronto.  The insurers say they have taken the measure following Foreign Office (FO) advice against travel to the infected areas. A spokeswoman for Direct Line Insurance said: "At the moment we are advising our customers not to travel to these areas.  "If they do and contract Sars, they will not be covered."  The insurers say they will continue to issue insurance which will cover other eventualities such as lost luggage, cancellation and non-Sars related medical expenses.  Refunds They will also offer the choice of a refund for holidays to infected destinations or the option to defer the trip to a later date. The Direct Line spokeswoman said on Friday: "We had a man this morning who was due to go to Canada for a wedding next week.  "Obviously, he didn't want to take the holiday at another time, so we gave him his money back."  American Express says it will still cover people for medical expenses if they contract Sars, despite the FO warning.  But it will not offer refunds to people who want to cancel their trips and is referring people to their travel agents to arrange alternative holidays.  The Association of British Travel Agents (ABTA) said it was "normal procedure" for insurers to cancel cover on FO advice. The option to defer trips to China and Hong Kong will run until 23 May and for a week to Canada.  ABTA spokesman Sean Tipton said: "There is a strong feeling in the industry that the World Health Organisation will change its advice on Toronto soon. "But if it doesn't, we will extend the period for deferrals.  "We will also be monitoring the position in China." He said holidaymakers on package trips would have a third option of changing to another destination of the same value.  Mr Tipton said: "There's no need for clients to worry about being charged cancellation fees or worry about travel to Canada and the Far East in general.  "This is restricted to one country and one city - nowhere else is affected."  The FO advised on Thursday against travel to Hong Kong, Beijing, Shanxi Province and Guangdong Province in China, and Toronto in Canada, which have been at the centre of the Sars outbreak.  For the moment, Singapore, which has had 19 deaths from the virus is not on the list because authorities have instigated a strict quarantine of victims.
 A WHO expert said there were likely to be "tens" of cases in Shanghai, rather than the two cases officially reported. A team from the WHO is currently investigating the spread of the disease in the city, and has extended its visit by an extra day to complete a tour of civilian and military hospitals and meet disease control experts.  Shanghai's inhabitants have long been wondering how China's business hub could have so few cases while numbers have skyrocketed elsewhere, BBC correspondent Francis Markus says.  Dr Wolfgang Preiser, a member of the WHO team in Shanghai, said the disparity between actual and official figures may have arisen because China's classification system is too narrow.  At the moment, to be confirmed as a Sars sufferer, a person must either have had contact with a Sars patient or have been in a region classed as a Sars epidemic area.  But with the disease rapidly spreading, this definition is inadequate, Dr Preiser told the BBC.  Either the epidemic area needed to be expanded - perhaps to encompass the whole of China - or the criteria needed to be altered, health experts said.  But Dr Preiser also said the situation in Shanghai was nowhere near as bad as in Beijing, because the authorities had acted much faster to monitor and prevent the disease.  In contrast to its criticism of China's general handling of the disease, the WHO has praised Shanghai for its efforts to contain Sars.  Many people now wear protective masks in the city, and the authorities have taken measures to disinfect public areas.  Shanghai has also urged migrant workers not to return home, and asked companies to stop hiring staff from affected areas.
Asia's Sars epidemic has been claiming non-human victims, as the Chinese authorities target domestic pets suspected of spreading the disease.  In Beijing, dogs and cats belonging to Sars patients are being rounded up and killed, officials said on Wednesday. However other animals may be benefiting from the war on Sars, as China cracks down on the trade in endangered species.  Although veterinary experts have said there is no evidence Sars can be transmitted to humans from household animals, the authorities are taking no chances.  "Pets can spread diseases. People can take measures to prevent diseases being spread, but not pets," a Beijing police official told the French news agency AFP.  "If a family has Sars and they have pets, we will catch and kill the pets regardless of whether they show Sars symptoms."  Chinese citizens are required by law to pay a special tax if they want to own a pet, but in the past this law has been frequently ignored.  Now, however, the police have started to actively enforce it.  "If we find any stray dogs or cats, or if anyone make reports to the police about people illegally raising pets, we will send people out to catch the animals and deal with them," the official said.  Sometimes the pet owners themselves are eager to get rid of their animals. A man in Beijing's Fengtai district threw his Pekinese dog from the sixth floor of his apartment block because he suspected it might have Sars, according to the Beijing Star Daily. Animal markets raided  But Sars may be good news for China's endangered animals.  The nation is regularly criticised by animal protection groups for failing to stop the lucrative trade in rare species.  But now the authorities have launched a clampdown, because of concerns that smuggled animals could be carrying the deadly disease. An official in the southern province of Guangdong said thousands of markets, restaurants and kitchens had been raided to check for protected animal species. The Xinhua news agency said about 15,000 animal fairs and 70,000 hotels and restaurants had been raided.  Officials are reported to have confiscated more than 800,000 endangered animals and arrested 1,428 suspects. Among the animals found were snakes, pangolins, anteaters, cranes, turtles and lizards.  While the link is far from proven, some experts believe Sars may have emerged in humans by jumping species from animals, perhaps from wild game.  Sars originated in Guangdong, where humans live close to farm animals, and endangered animal markets are a frequent sight.  Some of the world's most deadly pandemics are thought to have begun in southern China.
 Douglas Hartley, 71, joined the St. John Ambulance Brigade in December 1942 and has made a huge contribution to the charity's work.  Singer Iris Williams and a health expert who helped combat the spread of Sars in China are among those from south east Wales who are also recognised.  Iris Williams, who grew up in the south Wales Valleys before finding fame and concentrating her work in America, has been awarded an OBE.  Dr Meirion Evans, a lecturer at the University Wales College of Medicine in Cardiff, has been made an OBE for services to the World Health Organisation in China.  Mr Hartley, currently Deputy Chief Commander for Wales in St John Ambulance, has been awarded with an MBE.  It's fantastic to be recognised for everything you have put into your business Laura Tenison Keith Dunn, Chief Executive for St. John in Wales, said everyone in St. John was absolutely delighted that Her Majesty has recognised the outstanding contribution that Doug has made to the work of the organisation throughout Wales.  Also honoured with an OBE is the director of Techniquest, the science discovery centre in Cardiff Bay, Colin Johnson.  "Techniquest meets or exceeds all its targets each year, thanks to a wonderfully committed staff - and since they can't all have the OBE I am delighted that this recognition has been conferred on me as director," he said.  Laura Tenison, the 37-year-old founder and managing director of the internet and mail order maternity and baby wear firm, JoJo Maman Bb, gets an MBE.  Launched ten years ago with two part time employees, JoJo Maman Bb now has 90 employees, a sales and distribution centre in Newport and a turnover of around 10m.  "It's fantastic to be recognised for everything you have put into your business to make it a success but it wouldn't have happened without the amazing people who work around me," she said.
 "It's fair to say that the Sars epidemic is over its peak. We can see it globally and we can also see it in China," WHO representative in China Henk Bekedam told a briefing.  His comments came after no new cases of the virus - Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome - were reported in China for the second consecutive day on Thursday.  SARS WORLDWIDE Known death tolls: World: 812 Mainland China: 348 Hong Kong: 298 Taiwan: 84 Singapore: 32 Canada: 38 Source: WHO/local authorities Global update However, the authorities in mainland China said two more people died of Sars, bringing the number of deaths there to 336.In Hong Kong, officials reported one new fatality.  Mr Bekedam described as "a very good news" the latest data on Sars from around the world.  But he urged health officials to remain vigilant against the disease, pointing to a recent second Sars outbreak in Canada, the only country outside Asia to suffer Sars deaths. Vigilance "I think the challenge now is to eliminate Sars as a public health threat," Mr Bekedam said.  How Sars spread across the world In maps  He said the outbreak in Toronto - Canada's largest city - showed that another epidemic could be sparked with "just one missed diagnosis".  On Wednesday, Canadian health officials - who had earlier admitted that the second outbreak may have spread because of a wrong diagnosis - reported three more probable Sars cases.  Sars has been blamed for 32 deaths in Canada - all in Toronto area - but officials have said there were indications that the new outbreak may be tapering off.
 The number of obese children has increased dramatically People in China are becoming overweight at an alarming rate, a Chinese medical professor has said.  Professor Wu Yangfeng said that in the 15 years between 1985 and 2000, the number of overweight and obese children increased 28-fold.  He made his comments in a special China edition of the British Medical Journal.  The edition also looks at the impact of China's one child policy, the increase in chronic disease caused by smoking and lessons learned from Sars.  Growing problem  China used to be seen as a country with a lean population, but not any more.  Today a fifth of the world's overweight and obese people live in China - and the numbers are rising dramatically.  Professor Wu Yangfeng said this posed a considerable health problem, calling on the Chinese authorities to act now to prevent further increase.  There seems to be a range of underlying causes - from changes in diet to reduced levels of exercise and a rapid increase in the use of cars.  One article in the special edition of the British Medical Journal looks at the impact of passive smoking on the health of Chinese women. That is seen as a particular problem because far more Chinese men smoke than Chinese women.  Another looks at the long term impact of China's one child policy. Despite some of the atrocities associated with it, says one editor, the bottom line is that there was pain for one generation but there is some gain for the next.  And on the Sars crisis, the president of the Chinese Medical Association says China has learnt important lessons - to be honest with the public about what was happening, for example, and to involve health professionals in developing policy. The most read story in the UK is: Government wins Commons VAT votesMost Popular Now | 56,514 people are reading stories on the site right now. ";
New research into the deadly Sars virus suggests it might be able to be spread through contact with contaminated objects.  World Health Organization (WHO) scientists say they have found that the pneumonia-like virus is more resilient than first thought, being able to survive for four hours on surfaces and up to four days in human waste.  Sars (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) can also live indefinitely in sub-zero temperatures although it can be killed off even when doused in a detergent commonly used to sterilise contaminated areas.  The research backs up the theory that leaking sewage pipes helped spread an outbreak in a Hong Kong apartment block, in which 300 people were infected.  Densely-populated Hong Kong has been badly hit by the virus.  Five new deaths and eight new cases were reported on Sunday, pushing the death toll there to 184.  In mainland China, the health ministry on Sunday reported seven new deaths and 163 new infections. It takes the death toll to 197.  Sars has killed nearly 450 people worldwide.  Surfaces risk  Most people catch Sars through coughing and sneezing.  But tests carried out by laboratories in China, Hong Kong, Japan and Germany, for the WHO, now suggest the infection can also spread simply by touching a contaminated doorknob or lift button.  However, it is still not known how much of the virus is needed for someone to become infected in these ways.  Dick Thompson from the WHO told the BBC he was confident the virus could be contained, without resorting to a vaccine.  "We believe it is definitely possible that we can eliminate the disease before it enters into a cycle and becomes endemic," he said.  There is as yet no cure for Sars, which first emerged in southern China last November.  But the WHO hopes the latest findings will help researchers develop better tests for the virus and possible treatments.  The WHO says Hong Kong, Singapore and Canada have now got the Sars outbreak under control.  But China is still struggling to contain the virus. Schools in the capital Beijing are to remain closed for another two weeks, and about 15,000 have been quarantined.
 Rob Blyde, 29, was undergoing tests after he was admitted to Wishaw General Hospital, Lanarkshire, with a respiratory infection, on 13 April.  His symptoms were thought to be similar to Sars - Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome.  It has now emerged that Mr Blyde had been discharged after tests indicated he had the influenza A virus.  Lanarkshire Health Board said all other tests had been negative, making it "highly unlikely" that the patient was suffering from Sars.  Far East link  Mr Blyde, of Morningside, Wishaw, had become ill after returning to the UK from a trip to China.  Sars, a respiratory illness, has been claiming hundreds of victims, mainly in the Far East.  In the UK, six cases of Sars have been identified, and all but one of the victims has been released from hospital.  Hospitals have been issued with Department of Health advice on how to treat Sars and to prevent the infection spreading by quarantining patients.  The Sars virus, linked to the common cold, has been spread globally through air travel, with most of the cases being in Asia.
 Thousands of Sars investigators have been deployed in the Haidian district of China's capital Beijing, which has been worst hit by the disease, in a desperate bid to stop its spread.  The 30,000 investigators will check businesses and residences throughout the area looking for victims and ensuring that measures are being taken to improve hygiene, district official Zhou Liangluo said.  Each household in the district of 2.2 million people has been issued with a thermometer and emergency contact numbers, while offices and businesses have been ordered to install temperature-monitoring systems.  Prime Minister Wen Jiabao has warned that it is of vital importance to prevent the disease spreading in the country's rural areas where so far there has not been a large epidemic.  "Sars prevention in vast rural areas is a key component of the fight against the disease," Mr Wen told the country's senior provincial officials on Tuesday.  "Neglecting prevention work in the rural regions will not be tolerated," Mr Wen was quoted as saying by the People's Daily newspaper.  WHO team  In an unusually frank assessment of China's rural health care system, Mr Wen admitted that technical capabilities were poor in rural areas and epidemic surveillance systems unsound.  The BBC's Rupert Wingfield-Hayes in Beijing says that in many parts of rural China the health care system has simply collapsed and there are growing signs that the battle to keep Sars from spreading there is already being lost.  Meanwhile the World Health Organisation (WHO) has announced it is sending a team to the northern Chinese province of Hebei, where the number of Sars cases had risen sharply during the past week.  A WHO official said it was hoped that the team could help prevent a major outbreak in the densely-populated province.  The WHO has warned that the disease has not peaked yet in China, which on Tuesday announced 138 new cases, bringing the total to 4,409 and reported eight more deaths, taking the toll to 214.       Deadlier than thought  Meanwhile a new study of the flu-like virus - the first to be based on a statistically sound sample of 1,425 cases - has discovered that the death rate among sufferers is much higher than previously estimated.  The WHO initially estimated that the death rate from the virus was 5%, but the study, conducted in Hong Kong, says one in five people has died from the disease (20%).  European Union health ministers, along with their counterparts from 10 candidate countries, have drawn up a set of proposals to tackle the global spread of the virus.  At a meeting in Brussels, they agreed to closer co-operation between member states on the prevention and control of communicable diseases and to make passengers arriving from infected countries complete a questionnaire.  But they backed away from a proposal to medically screen travellers for signs of the disease, saying that any action had to be balanced and proportionate to avoid stirring up unnecessary public fear.